.  Yesterday, we learned that at least two Americans were killed. We pray for their families and loved ones. At least fourteen Americans were injured. And we pray for their full recovery - along with everyone else affected by these attacks. Earlier this week, I called the Prime Minister of Belgium and offered him our full array of support in bringing to justice any terrorists involved in planning or aiding this unconscionable attack on innocent men, women, and children. Belgium is a close friend and ally of the United States. And when it comes to our friends, America has their back. Especially as we fight the scourge of terrorism. More broadly, we're going to continue to root out and defeat ISIL. We've been taking out ISIL leadership, and this week, we removed one of their top leaders from the battlefield - permanently. A relentless air campaign - and support for forces in Iraq and Syria who are fighting ISIL on the ground - has allowed us to take approximately forty percent of the populated territory that ISIL once held in Iraq.  We're supporting Iraqi Security Forces who are beginning to put pressure on the ISIL stronghold of Mosul. And we will not stop until ISIL's safe-havens are destroyed. We're also working to disrupt plots against the United States and against our friends and allies.  A team of FBI agents is on the ground in Belgium supporting the investigation.  We've ramped up our intelligence cooperation so that we can root out ISIL's operations.  And we constantly review our homeland security posture to remain vigilant against any efforts to target the United States. ISIL poses a threat to the entire civilized world. That's why we've been leading a truly global coalition that will be vital to our success.  Secretary Kerry is leading an international effort to bring the Syrian civil war to an end, a critical piece of restoring stability to that war-torn part of the world. And next week, dozens of world leaders will come here to Washington for a summit focused on nuclear security. We'll use that opportunity to also review our joint efforts against ISIL, and to make sure the world remains united in this effort to protect our people. As we move forward in this fight, we have to wield another weapon alongside our airstrikes, our military, our counterterrorism work, and our diplomacy. And that's the power of our example.  Our openness to refugees fleeing ISIL's violence.  Our determination to win the battle against ISIL's hateful and violent propaganda - a distorted view of Islam that aims to radicalize young Muslims to their cause. In that effort, our most important partners are American Muslims. That's why we have to reject any attempt to stigmatize Muslim-Americans, and their enormous contributions to our country and our way of life.  Such attempts are contrary to our character, to our values, and to our history as a nation built around the idea of religious freedom. It's also counterproductive. It plays right into the hands of terrorists who want to turn us against one another; who need a reason to recruit more people to their hateful cause. I am a father. And just like any other parent, the awful images from Brussels draw my thoughts to my own children's safety. That's also why you should be confident that defeating ISIL remains our top military, intelligence, and national security priority.  We will succeed. The terrorists will fail. They want us to abandon our values and our way of life. We will not. They want us to give in to their vision of the future. We will defeat them with ours. Because we know that the future belongs not to those who seek only to destroy - but to those who have the courage to build. Thanks.
's history. The Twin Towers were reduced to rubble. The Pentagon was in flames. A Pennsylvania field burned with the wreckage of an airplane. And nearly 3,000 innocent lives were lost. Sons and daughters, husbands and wives, neighbors and colleagues and friends. They were from all walks of life, all races and religions, all colors and creeds, from across America and around the world. This weekend, we honor their memory once more. We stand with the survivors who still bear the scars of that day. We thank the first responders who risked everything to save others. And we salute a generation of Americans--our men and women in uniform, diplomats and our intelligence, homeland security and law enforcement professionals -- who serve, and have given their lives, to help keep us safe. A lot has changed over these past 15 years. We've delivered devastating blows to the al Qaeda leaders that attacked us on 9/11. We delivered justice to Osama bin Laden. We've strengthened our homeland security. We've prevented attacks. We've saved lives. At the same time, the terrorist threat has evolved, as we've seen so tragically from Boston to Chattanooga, from San Bernardino to Orlando. So in Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria and beyond, we'll stay relentless against terrorists like al Qaeda and ISIL. We will destroy them. And we'll keep doing everything in our power to protect our homeland. As we reflect on these past 15 years, it's also important to remember what has not changed--the core values that define us as Americans. The resilience that sustains us. After all, terrorists will never be able to defeat the United States. Their only hope is to terrorize us into changing who we are or our way of life. That's why we Americans will never give in to fear. And it's why this weekend we remember the true spirit of 9/11. We're still the America of heroes who ran into harm's way; of ordinary folks who took down the hijackers; of families who turned their pain into hope. We are still the America that looks out for one another, bound by our shared belief that I am my brother's keeper, I am my sister's keeper. /p> In the face of terrorism, how we respond matters. We cannot give in to those who would divide us. We cannot react in ways that erode the fabric of our society. Because it's our diversity, our welcoming of all talent, our treating of everybody fairly--no matter their race, gender, ethnicity, or faith--that's part of what makes our country great. It's what makes us resilient. And if we stay true to those values, we'll uphold the legacy of those we've lost, and keep our nation strong and free. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.
.  This week, I'm speaking to you from our Nuclear Security Summit.  I welcomed more than 50 leaders from around the world to make sure we're working together to meet one of the greatest threats to global security--terrorists getting their hands on a weapon of mass destruction, like a nuclear weapon. Fortunately, because of our efforts so far, no terrorist group has yet succeeded in obtaining a nuclear device or producing a dirty bomb using radioactive materials.  But we know that al Qaeda has tried.  ISIL has already used chemical weapons in Syria and Iraq.  And if they ever got hold of a nuclear weapon or nuclear material, we have no doubt they'd use it.  That's why we've been leading a global effort to secure the world's nuclear materials.  And with summits like this, we've made important progress.  Working with other nations, we have removed or secured enough nuclear material for more than 150 nuclear weapons--material that will now never fall into the hands of terrorists. All of South America is now free of these deadly materials.  Central Europe and Southeast Asia are on track to be free of them later this year.  That means that as terrorists and criminal gangs look around for the deadly ingredients for a nuclear device, vast regions of the world are now off limits.  This is a remarkable achievement.  And at this summit, we pledged to keep up our efforts to prevent the world's most deadly networks from obtaining the world's most deadly weapons. Our summit was also another opportunity to make sure the world remains united and focused on destroying ISIL.  A majority of the nations who came here are part of our global coalition against ISIL.  A number of our countries have been targeted by ISIL.  Just about all our nations have seen citizens travel to join ISIL in Syria and Iraq.  In Syria and Iraq, ISIL continues to lose ground.  Our coalition continues to take out its leaders, including those planning terrorist attacks against our countries.  They're losing their oil infrastructure and revenues.  Their morale is suffering. As ISIL is squeezed in Syria and Iraq, it's lashing out elsewhere, as we've seen most recently-- and tragically--from Turkey to Brussels.  During our summit, we focused on ways to step up our efforts to disrupt terrorist attacks.  It requires even more cooperation to prevent the flow of foreign terrorist fighters and sharing even more information and intelligence.  That's why I invited all the nations represented at this summit to join us in a broader discussion among our intelligence and security services on how we can improve information sharing to prevent terrorist attacks. This continues to be a difficult fight.  But every day, our dedicated professionals--military, diplomatic, intelligence, counterterrorism, homeland security, law enforcement, nuclear experts--are working to protect us.  Because of the progress we made this week, and over recent years, more of the world's nuclear material is secure.  It's harder for terrorists to get it.  And as Commander in Chief, I want you to know that we're going to keep doing everything in our power to keep our nation safe and strong and free.
. Over the past seven years, we haven't just been recovering from crisis, we've been rebuilding our economy on a new foundation for growth - growth that benefits everybody, not just folks at the top. Our businesses have created jobs for 73 straight months - 14.4 million new jobs in all.  We've covered another 20 million Americans with health insurance. We've helped more Americans afford college, and invested in industries that create good jobs that pay well, like clean energy. And wages are finally rising again.  But there will always be more work to do. And this week, my Administration took two big steps that will help make sure your hard work is rewarded, and that everybody plays by the same rules.   First, we're helping more Americans retire with security and dignity. Right now, if you go to a retirement advisor for investment advice, some of them don't have to act in your best interest. Instead of telling you the best way to save your hard-earned money, these advisors can get backdoor payments from big companies for steering you toward investments that cost more and earn you less. As a result, when you retire, you might be missing out on tens of thousands of dollars - because your advisor got paid more to give you bad advice.  If that seems wrong, that's because it is. That's why the Department of Labor just finalized a rule to crack down on these kinds of conflicts of interest.  And a lot of Wall Street special interests aren't very happy about it. But across the country, this new rule will boost working folks' retirement savings by billions of dollars a year. And it will level the playing field for the many good advisors who do work in their clients' best interest.   Second, the Treasury Department took action to crack down on big corporations that change their address overseas after acquiring smaller companies, in order to reduce their tax bill here at home. It's a loophole called "corporate inversion."  And it means that American companies can take advantage of America's technology, America's infrastructure, America's workers - but then, when it comes to paying their fair share of taxes, suddenly claim they're not American companies after all. That's why, this week, the Treasury Department made it more difficult for companies to exploit this loophole and stick the rest of us with the tab.   Together, these steps build on the work we've already done to make our tax code fairer and consumer protections stronger. Because I believe that rather than double down on policies that allow a few at the top to play by their own rules, we should build an economy where everybody has a fair shot, everybody does their fair share, and everybody plays by the same set of rules.   That's what this country is all about. That's what we've been working toward these past seven years.  And that's what I'm going to keep fighting for as long as I'm your President.  Thanks everybody. Have a great weekend.
.  One of the most consequential responsibilities our Constitution grants a President is appointing a Supreme Court Justice.  The men and women who sit on the Supreme Court safeguard our rights.  They ensure that ours is a system of laws, not of men.  And they're given the essential task of applying the principles written into our founding documents to the most challenging questions of today.  So this is a duty I take very seriously.  It requires me to set aside short-term politics in order to maintain faith with our founders.  And on Wednesday, after weeks of consultations with Republicans, Democrats, and leaders across the country, I selected a nominee whose unmatched experience and integrity have earned him the respect and admiration of both parties - Chief Judge Merrick Garland. Judge Garland grew up in my hometown of Chicago, with parents who taught him to work hard and deal fairly.  As a young lawyer, he left a lucrative private firm to work for half as much in public service.  Eventually, he oversaw the federal response to the Oklahoma City bombing, working side-by-side with first responders, victims, and their families to bring justice for an unspeakable crime.  And everywhere he went during that investigation, he carried with him in his briefcase the program from the memorial service with each of the victims' names inside. For the last 19 years, Judge Garland has served on what's known as "the second highest court in the land" - the D.C. Circuit Court - including the last three years as Chief Judge.  On the bench, he's shown a dedication to protecting our basic rights.  A conviction that powerful voices must not be allowed to drown out those of everyday Americans.  An understanding that justice isn't simply abstract legal theory; it affects people's daily lives.  And a spirit of decency, modesty, and even-handedness in his work.  Judge Garland is admired for his courtesy, his devotion to family, and his civic-mindedness - for the past 18 years, he's served as a tutor for young students at a local D.C. elementary school.  During my time as President, through three separate Supreme Court appointments, in conversations with Republicans and Democrats alike, one name came up more than any other - Merrick Garland.  I understand that we're in the middle of an especially noisy and volatile political season.  But at a time when our politics are so polarized; when norms and customs of our political rhetoric seem to be corroding - this is precisely the time we should treat the appointment of a Supreme Court justice with the seriousness it deserves.  Because our Supreme Court is supposed to be above politics, not an extension of politics.  And it should stay that way.  So I ask Republicans in the Senate to give Judge Garland the respect he has earned.  Give him a hearing.  Give him an up-or-down vote.  To deny it would be an abdication of the Senate's Constitutional duty.  It would indicate a process for nominating and confirming judges that is beyond repair.  It would make it increasingly impossible for any President, Republican or Democrat, to carry out their Constitutional function.  To go down that path would jeopardize our system of justice, it would hurt our democracy, and betray the vision of our founding.  I fulfilled my Constitutional duty.  Now it's time for Senators to do theirs.  I hope that they take the time to reflect on the importance of this process to our country.  I hope that they'll act fairly.  And I hope they'll work in a bipartisan fashion to confirm Merrick Garland to the Supreme Court.  That's how we can uphold our pledge to liberty and justice for all - for our time and for generations to come.  Thanks everybody.  Have a good weekend.
.   It's now been a year since the tragic death of Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri.  His death--along with the events in Cleveland, Staten Island, Baltimore, Cincinnati, and other communities--sparked protests and soul searching all across our country.  Over the past year, we've come to see, more clearly than ever, the frustration in many communities of color and the feeling that our laws can be applied unevenly. After Ferguson, I said that we had to face these issues squarely.  I convened a task force on community policing to find commonsense steps that can help us drive down crime and build up trust and cooperation between communities and police, who put their lives on the line every single day to help keep us safe.  And I've met personally with rank and file officers to hear their ideas. In May, this task force made up of police officers, activists and academics proposed 59 recommendations - everything from how we can make better use of data and technology, to how we train police officers, to how law enforcement engages with our schools.  And we've been working with communities across America to put these ideas into action. Dozens of police departments are now sharing more data with the public, including on citations, stops and searches, and shootings involving law enforcement.  We've brought together leaders from across the country to explore alternatives to incarceration.  The Justice Department has begun pilot programs to help police use body cameras and collect data on the use of force.  This fall, the department will award more than $160 million in grants to support law enforcement and community organizations that are working to improve policing.  And all across the country - from states like Illinois and Ohio, to cities like Philadelphia, Boston, and Nashville - local leaders are working to implement the task force recommendations in a way that works for their communities. So we've made progress.  And we'll keep at it.  But let's be clear: the issues raised over the past year aren't new, and they won't be solved by policing alone.  We simply can't ask our police to contain and control issues that the rest of us aren't willing to address--as a society.  That starts with reforming a criminal justice system that too often is a pipeline from inadequate schools to overcrowded jails, wreaking havoc on communities and families all across the country. So we need Congress to reform our federal sentencing laws for non-violent drug offenders.  We need to keep working to help more prisoners take steps to turn their lives around so they can contribute to their communities after they've served their time. More broadly, we need to truly invest in our children and our communities so that more young people see a better path for their lives.  That means investing in early childhood education, job training, pathways to college.  It means dealing honestly with issues of race, poverty, and class that leave too many communities feeling isolated and segregated from greater opportunity.  It means expanding that opportunity to every American willing to work for it, no matter what zip code they were born into. Because, in the end, that's always been the promise of America.  And that's what I'll keep working for every single day that I'm President. Thanks everybody, and have a great weekend.
.  Today, there are 2.2 million people behind bars in America and millions more on parole or probation.  Every year, we spend $80 billion in taxpayer dollars to keep people incarcerated.  Many are non-violent offenders serving unnecessarily long sentences.  I believe we can disrupt the pipeline from underfunded schools to overcrowded jails.  I believe we can address the disparities in the application of criminal justice, from arrest rates to sentencing to incarceration.  And I believe we can help those who have served their time and earned a second chance get the support they need to become productive members of society.  That's why over the course of this year, I've been talking to folks around the country about reforming our criminal justice system to make it smarter, fairer, and more effective.  In February, I sat down in the Oval Office with police officers from around the country.  In the spring, I met with police officers and young people in Camden, New Jersey, where they're using community policing and data to drive down crime.  Over the summer, I visited a prison in Oklahoma to talk with inmates and corrections officers about rehabilitating prisoners, and preventing more people from ending up there in the first place.  Two weeks ago, I visited West Virginia to meet with families battling prescription drug and heroin abuse, as well as people who are working on new solutions for treatment and rehabilitation.  Last week, I traveled to Chicago to thank police chiefs from across the country for all that their officers do to protect Americans, to make sure they've got the resources to get the job done, and to call for commonsense gun safety reforms that would make officers and their communities safer.  And we know that having millions of people in the criminal justice system, without any ability to find a job after release, is unsustainable.  It's bad for communities and it's bad for our economy. So on Monday, I'll travel to Newark, New Jersey to highlight efforts to help Americans who've paid their debt to society reintegrate back into their communities.  Everyone has a role to play, from businesses that are hiring ex-offenders to philanthropies that are supporting education and training programs.  And I'll keep working with people in both parties to get criminal justice reform bills to my desk, including a bipartisan bill that would reduce mandatory minimums for non-violent drug offenders and reward prisoners with shorter sentences if they complete programs that make them less likely to commit a repeat offense.  There's a reason that good people across the country are coming together to reform our criminal justice system.  Because it's not about politics.  It's about whether we as a nation live up to our founding ideal of liberty and justice for all.  And working together, we can make sure that we do.  Thanks, everybody.  Have a great weekend.  And have a safe and Happy Halloween.
.  I hope most of you are gearing up for a long weekend with family and friends - maybe some barbeques, road trips, or fantasy drafts.  But I wanted to take a moment to talk to you about the real meaning of Labor Day - a day we set aside every year to honor the hardworking men and women who fought for so many of the rights that we take for granted today.    The eight-hour workday, 40-hour workweek, weekends.  Overtime and the minimum wage.  Safer workplaces.  Health insurance, Social Security, Medicare, and retirement plans.  All of those gains were fought for and won by the labor movement - folks who were working not just for a bigger paycheck for themselves, but for more security and prosperity for the folks working next to them as well.  That's how we built the great American middle class.    That's the spirit we've been working to restore these past six and a half years.  On Friday, we found out that the economy created another 173,000 jobs in August.  Over the past five and a half years, our businesses have created 13.1 million new jobs in total - the longest streak of job creation on record.  The unemployment rate dropped to 5.1%, the lowest it's been in seven years.  The American auto industry is on track to sell more cars and trucks this year than it has in more than a decade.  Sixteen million Americans have gained the security of health insurance.  Seventeen states and about 30 cities and counties have raised the minimum wage.  And we've proposed extending overtime protections to as many as five million Americans.  All of that is progress.    This month, Congress has an opportunity to continue that progress.  As always, the deadline for Congress to pass a budget is the end of September.  Every year.  This is not new.  And if they don't, they'll shut down the government for the second time in two years.  At a time when the global economy faces headwinds and America's economy is a relative bright spot in the world, a shutdown of our government would be wildly irresponsible.  It would be an unforced error that saps the momentum we've worked so hard to build.  Plain and simple, a shutdown would hurt working Americans.   It doesn't have to happen.  If Congress wants to support working Americans and strengthen our middle class, they can pass a budget that invests in, not makes cuts to, the middle class.  If they pass a budget with shortsighted sequester cuts that harm our military and our economy, I'll veto it.  If they make smart investments in our military readiness, our infrastructure, our schools, public health, and research, I'll sign that budget - and they know that.    So let's get it done.  Our economy doesn't need another round of threats and brinksmanship.  Nobody gets to play games with our economy - or the middle class I grew up in, and that you grew up in.  So tell Congress to pass a budget that reflects the values we honor on Labor Day.  Rewarding hard work.  Giving everybody a fair shot.  And working together to give all of our kids a better life.  Thanks everybody.  And enjoy your weekend.
.  Our country is home to some of the most beautiful God-given landscapes in the world.  We're blessed with natural treasures - from the Grand Tetons to the Grand Canyon; from lush forests and vast deserts to lakes and rivers teeming with wildlife.  And it's our responsibility to protect these treasures for future generations, just as previous generations protected them for us.  Since taking office, I've set aside more than 260 million acres of public lands and waters - more than any President in history.  Last month, we announced that 11 states had come together with ranchers, and industry groups to protect a threatened species - the sage grouse - without jeopardizing local economies.  Two weeks ago, we announced that we're creating one new marine sanctuary on the Potomac River in Maryland, and another along Lake Michigan in Wisconsin - part of unprecedented efforts to restore the Chesapeake Bay and the Great Lakes.  We also joined a coalition of countries cracking down on illegal fishing that threatens jobs and food security around the globe. And I'm going to keep protecting the places that make America special, and the livelihoods of those who depend on them.  We'll also keep doing what we can to prevent the worst effects of climate change before it's too late.  Over the past six years, we've led by example, generating more clean energy and lowering our carbon emissions.  Our businesses have stepped up in a big way, including just this past week.  Some of our biggest companies made new commitments to act on climate - not just because it's good for the planet, but because it's good for their bottom line.  This is how America is leading on the environment .   And because America is leading by example, 150 countries, representing over 85% of global emissions, have now laid out plans to reduce their levels of the harmful carbon pollution that warms our planet.  And it gives us great momentum going into Paris this December, where the world needs to come together and build on these individual commitments with an ambitious, long-term agreement to protect this Earth for our kids.  Now Congress has to do its job.  This month, even as Republicans in Congress barely managed to keep our government open, they shut down something called the Land and Water Conservation Fund.  For more than half a century, this fund has protected more than 5 million acres of land - from playgrounds to parks to priceless landscapes - all without costing taxpayers a dime.  Nearly every single county in America has benefited from this program.  It has bipartisan support in both the House and the Senate.  Republicans in Congress should reauthorize and fully fund the Land and Water Conservation Fund without delay. After all, as Pope Francis reminds us so eloquently, this planet is a gift from God - and our common home.  We should leave it to our kids in better shape than we found it.  Thanks, and have a great weekend.
fter the worst economic crisis in generations, our economy continues to grow and create jobs.  In fact, our businesses have created 13 million new jobs over the past five and a half years. But if we want to keep this momentum going - to make sure that working families feel like their hard work is being rewarded with a basic sense of security - then we all need to do our part. That's why my Administration has been partnering with states and cities to help grow the middle class.  Over the past few years, nearly 20 cities and counties have implemented paid sick days.  Six states have enacted paid sick days or paid family leave.  Seventeen states, and more than two dozen cities and counties, have raised their minimum wage.  All of this will help working families.  And across the country, folks are proving that preparing all our kids for the future doesn't have to be a partisan issue.  Seattle, a city with a Democratic mayor, just passed universal pre-k, while Indianapolis, a city with a Republican mayor, is starting citywide preschool scholarships.  All told, 34 states have increased funding for preschool.  And that's good for all of us. Now, we need Congress to do its part to boost the economy, as well.  Unfortunately, Congress left town for five full weeks - and they left behind a stack of unfinished business.  For the first time ever, Congress failed to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank.  That left thousands of business owners and their employees at a serious disadvantage compared to their competitors overseas.  That's not good for jobs. It's not good for our economy.  When it returns from recess, reauthorizing the bank ought to be a top agenda for members of Congress.   Congress also hasn't passed a budget - and when they return from vacation, they'll only have a few weeks to do so, or shut down the government for the second time in two years.  They've had all year to do this.  Months ago, I put forward a detailed plan to strengthen our economy and our national security in a fiscally responsible way.  And for months, I've said I will veto any budget that locks in the sequester--those senseless cuts to domestic and national security priorities.  Remember, we can't cut our way to prosperity.  We should be investing in things that help our economy grow today and tomorrow, like education or infrastructure or scientific research. Democrats in Congress have made it clear they're ready to sit down and work with Republicans to find common ground on this.  After all, Americans expect Congress to help keep our country strong and growing - not threaten to shut down our government.  When Congress gets back, they should prevent a shutdown, pass a responsible budget, and prove that this is a country that looks forward - a country that invests in our future, and keeps our economy growing for all Americans.   Thanks, everybody and have a great weekend.
.  This Monday, I'm heading to Alaska for a three-day tour of the state.  I've been looking forward to this for a long time.  Not only because Alaska is one of the most beautiful places in a country that's full of beautiful places - but because I'll have several opportunities to meet with everyday Alaskans about what's going on in their lives.  I'll travel throughout the state, meeting with Alaskans who live above the Arctic Circle, with Alaska natives, and with folks who earn their livelihoods through fishing and tourism.  And I expect to learn a lot. One thing I've learned so far is that a lot of these conversations begin with climate change.  And that's because Alaskans are already living with its effects.  More frequent and extensive wildfires.  Bigger storm surges as sea ice melts faster.  Some of the swiftest shoreline erosion in the world - in some places, more than three feet a year.  Alaska's glaciers are melting faster too, threatening tourism and adding to rising seas.  And if we do nothing, Alaskan temperatures are projected to rise between six and twelve degrees by the end of the century, changing all sorts of industries forever.  This is all real.  This is happening to our fellow Americans right now.  In fact, Alaska's governor recently told me that four villages are in "imminent danger" and have to be relocated.  Already, rising sea levels are beginning to swallow one island community.  Think about that.  If another country threatened to wipe out an American town, we'd do everything in our power to protect ourselves.  Climate change poses the same threat, right now.  That's why one of the things I'll do while I'm in Alaska is to convene other nations to meet this threat.  Several Arctic nations have already committed to action.  Since the United States and China worked together to set ambitious climate targets last year, leading by example, many of the world's biggest emitters have come forward with new climate plans of their own.  And that's a good sign as we approach this December's global climate negotiations in Paris. Now, one of the ways America is leading is by transitioning away from dirty energy sources that threaten our health and our environment, and by going all-in on clean, renewable energy sources like wind and solar.  And Alaska has the natural resources to be a global leader in this effort.  Now even as we accelerate this transition, our economy still has to rely on oil and gas.  As long as that's the case, I believe we should rely more on domestic production than on foreign imports, and we should demand the highest safety standards in the industry - our own.  Still, I know there are Americans who are concerned about oil companies drilling in environmentally sensitive waters.  Some are also concerned with my administration's decision to approve Shell's application to drill a well off the Alaskan coast, using leases they purchased before I took office.  I share people's concerns about offshore drilling.  I remember the BP spill in the Gulf of Mexico all too well.  That's precisely why my administration has worked to make sure that our oil exploration conducted under these leases is done at the highest standards possible, with requirements specifically tailored to the risks of drilling off Alaska.  We don't rubber-stamp permits.  We made it clear that Shell has to meet our high standards in how they conduct their operations - and it's a testament to how rigorous we've applied those standards that Shell has delayed and limited its exploration off Alaska while trying to meet them.  The bottom line is, safety has been and will continue to be my administration's top priority when it comes to oil and gas exploration off America's precious coasts - even as we push our economy and the world to ultimately transition off of fossil fuels. So I'm looking forward to talking with Alaskans about how we can work together to make America the global leader on climate change around the globe.  And we're going to offer unique and engaging ways for you to join me on this trip all week at WhiteHouse.gov/Alaska.  Because what's happening in Alaska is happening to us.  It's our wakeup call.  And as long as I'm President, America will lead the world to meet the threat of climate change before it's too late. Thanks, and have a great weekend.
.  My top priority as President is making sure we do everything we can to reignite the true engine of America's economic growth - a rising, thriving middle class.   Yesterday, we received some welcome news on that front.  We learned that our businesses added nearly 250,000 new jobs last month.  The unemployment rate fell to 7.7% - still too high, but now lower than it was when I took office.  Our businesses have created jobs every month for three years straight - nearly 6.4 million new jobs in all.  Our manufacturers are bringing jobs back to America.  Our stock market has rebounded.  New homes are being built and sold at a faster pace.  And we need to do everything we can to keep that momentum going.  That means asking ourselves three questions every day: How do we make America a magnet for new jobs?  How do we equip more of our people with the skills those jobs require?  And how do we make sure that your hard work leads to a decent living? That has to be our driving focus - our North Star.  And at a time when our businesses are gaining a little more traction, the last thing we should do is allow Washington politics to get in the way.  You deserve better than the same political gridlock and refusal to compromise that has too often passed for serious debate over the last few years. That's why I've been reaching out to Republicans and Democrats to see if we can untangle some of the gridlock.  Earlier this week, I met with some Republican Senators to see if there were smarter ways to grow our economy and reduce our deficits than the arbitrary cuts and the so-called "sequester" that recently went into place.  We had an open and honest conversation about critical issues like immigration reform and gun violence, and other areas where we can work together to move this country forward.  And next week, I'll attend both the Democratic and Republican party meetings in the Capitol to continue those discussions. The fact is, America is a nation of different beliefs and different points of view.  That's what makes us strong, and frankly, makes our democratic debates messy and often frustrating.  But ultimately what makes us special is when we summon the ability to see past those differences, and come together around the belief that what binds us together will always be more powerful than what drives us apart.  As Democrats and Republicans, we may disagree on the best way to achieve our goals, but I'm confident we can agree on what those goals should be.  A strong and vibrant middle class.  An economy that allows businesses to grow and thrive.  An education system that gives more Americans the skills they need to compete for the jobs of the future.  An immigration system that actually works for families and businesses.  Stronger communities and safer streets for our children. Making progress on these issues won't be easy.  In the months ahead, there will be more contentious debate and honest disagreement between principled people who want what's best for this country.  But I still believe that compromise is possible.  I still believe we can come together to do big things.  And I know there are leaders on the other side who share that belief.  So I'll keep fighting to solve the real challenges facing middle-class families.  And I'll enlist anyone who is willing to help.  That's what this country needs now - and that's what you deserve. Thanks.
. For decades, too many working Americans went without the security of health insurance -- and their financial well-being suffered because of it. We've begun to change that. As the Affordable Care Act has taken effect, we've covered 17.6 million Americans. Since 2010, the uninsured rate has decreased by 45%. And for the first time, more than 90% of Americans are covered. If you haven't gotten covered yet, or if you care about someone who hasn't gotten covered yet, now's your chance. It's open enrollment season for the Health Insurance Marketplace. What that means is, with a few clicks on HealthCare.gov, you'll find private insurance companies competing for your business. You can compare plans and choose the one that's right for your family. In fact, most Americans will find an option that costs less than $75 a month. Even if you already have insurance through the Marketplace, check it out. Shopping around can save you a lot of money -- last year, consumers who shopped saved almost $400. Take the story of a man named Phil Viso, who emailed me earlier this year. Phil's a software developer from my hometown of Chicago. Last winter, he had an idea for a new app and decided to start his own company. And that can be scary when you need to get your own insurance. But Phil logged on to HealthCare.gov, answered a few questions, picked a plan, and even found out he was eligible for a tax credit that saved him money. Here's what he wrote: "I'm still sort of in shock about how great the experience of signing up for health care was...I will have a lot to worry about over the course of the year as I try to get my app released, but thankfully, good health care will not be one of those worries." After he sent me that email, Phil ended up getting a new and better job anyway. But that's the whole point of health insurance. Peace of mind. And under the Affordable Care Act, if you want to change jobs, go back to school, or chase that new idea, you can do it without worrying about going broke if you get sick. If you've got a pre-existing condition -- diabetes or cancer or heartburn or a heart attack -- you can no longer be charged more or denied coverage. You can no longer be charged more just for being a woman. And preventive care like checkups and immunizations now come with no additional out-of-pocket costs. What we're talking about is no longer just a law, and it's certainly not the myths and scare tactics that the cynics have peddled our way for years. This is reality. This is health care in America. And the bottom line is, Americans like it. They're happy with their plans and their premiums. So join them. Give it a shot. Check out HealthCare.gov, CuidadoDeSalud.gov, or call 1-800-318-2596 to find a plan that's right for you or someone you care about. And by the way -- if you live in one of the 20 cities participating in our Healthy Communities Challenge, I want to see how many of your neighbors you can get signed up. I'll come visit the city that enrolls the highest percentage of folks who aren't covered right now. That's a promise. After all, this country is at its best when we look out for each other. And together, we can help more Americans get the security that they and their families deserve. Thanks everybody. Have a great weekend.
.  As a nation, our top priority is growing our economy and creating good middle class jobs.  That's why this week I'm speaking to you from the Argonne National Laboratory in Illinois, because few areas hold as much promise as what they're focused on right here - harnessing American energy.  You see, after years of talking about it, we're finally poised to take control of our energy future.  We produce more oil than we have in 15 years.  We import less oil than we have in 20 years.  We've doubled the amount of renewable energy we generate from sources like wind and solar - with tens of thousands of good jobs to show for it.  We're producing more natural gas than ever before - with hundreds of thousands of good jobs to show for it.  We've supported the first new nuclear power plant since the 1970s.  And we're sending less carbon pollution into the environment than we have in nearly 20 years. So we're making real progress.  But over the past few weeks, we got a reminder that we need to do more.  We went through another spike in gas prices, just like last year, and the year before that.  It happens every year.  It's a serious blow to your budget - like getting hit with a new tax coming right out of your pocket. Over the past four years, as part of our all-of-the-above energy strategy, we've taken steps to soften that blow by making sure our cars use less gas.  We've put in place the toughest fuel economy standards in our history so that by the middle of the next decade, our cars will go twice as far on a gallon of gas.  Over the life of a new car, the average family will save more than $8,000 at the pump.  But the only way we're going to break this cycle of spiking gas prices for good is to shift our cars and trucks off of oil for good.  That's why, in my State of the Union Address, I called on Congress to set up an Energy Security Trust to fund research into new technologies that will help us reach that goal.  Here's how it would work.  Much of our energy is drawn from lands and waters that we, the public, own together.  So I'm proposing that we take some of our oil and gas revenues from public lands and put it towards research that will benefit the public, so that we can support American ingenuity without adding a dime to our deficit.  We can support scientists who are designing new engines that are more energy efficient; developing cheaper batteries that go farther on a single charge; and devising new ways to fuel our cars and trucks with new sources of clean energy - like advanced biofuels and natural gas - so drivers can one day go coast-to-coast without using a drop of oil.  Now, this idea isn't mine.  It's actually built off a proposal put forward by a non-partisan coalition of CEOs and retired generals and admirals.  So let's take their advice and free our families and our businesses from painful spikes in gas prices once and for all.   And in the meantime, let's keep moving forward on an all-of-the-above energy strategy.  A strategy where we produce more oil and gas here at home, but also more biofuels and fuel-efficient vehicles; more solar power and wind power.  A strategy where we put more people to work building cars, homes and businesses that waste less energy.  We can do this.  We're Americans.  And when we commit ourselves to something, there's no telling how far we'll go.  Thanks and have a great weekend.
.  Our top priority as a nation, and my top priority as President, must be doing everything we can to reignite the engine of America's growth: a rising, thriving middle class.  That's our North Star.  That must drive every decision we make. Now, yesterday, we learned that our businesses created 95,000 new jobs last month.  That's about 500,000 new jobs this year, and nearly 6.5 million new jobs over the past three years.  But we've got more work to do to get the economy growing faster, so that everybody who wants a job can find one.  And that means we need fewer self-inflicted wounds from Washington, like the across-the-board spending cuts that are already hurting many communities - cuts that economists predict will cost our economy hundreds of thousands of jobs this year. If we want to keep rebuilding this economy on a stronger, sturdier foundation for growth - growth that creates good, middle-class jobs - we need to make smarter choices. This week, I'll send a budget to Congress that will help do just that - a fiscally-responsible blueprint for middle-class jobs and growth. For years, an argument in Washington has raged between reducing our deficits at all costs, and making the investments we need to grow the economy.  My budget puts that argument to rest.  Because we don't have to choose between these goals - we can do both.  After all, as we saw in the 1990s, nothing reduces deficits faster than a growing economy.  My budget will reduce our deficits not with aimless, reckless spending cuts that hurt students and seniors and middle-class families - but through the balanced approach that the American people prefer, and the investments that a growing economy demands. Now, the truth is, our deficits are already shrinking.  That's a fact.  I've already signed more than $2.5 trillion in deficit reduction into law, and my budget will reduce our deficits by nearly $2 trillion more, without harming the recovery.  That surpasses the goal of $4 trillion in deficit reduction that many economists believe will stabilize our finances. We'll make the tough reforms required to strengthen Medicare for the future, without undermining the rock-solid guarantee at its core.  And we'll enact commonsense tax reform that includes closing wasteful tax loopholes for the wealthy and well-connected - loopholes like the ones that can allow a billionaire to pay a lower tax rate than his or her secretary. This is the compromise I offered the Speaker of the House at the end of last year.  While it's not my ideal plan to further reduce the deficit, it's a compromise I'm willing to accept in order to move beyond a cycle of short-term, crisis-driven decision-making, and focus on growing our economy and our middle class for the long run.  It includes ideas many Republicans have said they could accept as well.  It's a way we can make progress together. But deficit reduction cannot come at the cost of economic growth or middle-class security.  And it doesn't have to.  My budget will make critical investments to grow the economy, create jobs, and strengthen the middle class.  As I said in my State of the Union Address, every day, we should ask ourselves three questions: how do we make America a magnet for good jobs?  How do we give our workers the skills they need to do those jobs?  And how do we make sure that hard work leads to a decent living? To make America a magnet for good jobs, we'll invest in high-tech manufacturing and homegrown American energy, put people to work building new roads, bridges, and schools, and cut red tape to help businesses grow. To give workers the skills they need to do those jobs, we'll invest in education that begins in the earliest years, and job training that better equips workers to compete in a 21st century economy. To make sure hard work is rewarded, we'll build new ladders of opportunity into the middle class, and focus on revitalizing some of our communities hardest-hit by recession and job loss. All of these investments will help grow the economy and create jobs.  None of them will add to the deficit.  And I will lay out these priorities in greater detail in the days ahead. It's a budget that doesn't spend beyond our means.  And it's a budget that doesn't make harsh and unnecessary cuts that only serve to slow our economy.  We'll keep our promise to an aging generation by shoring up Medicare.  And we'll keep our promise to the next generation by investing in the fundamentals that have always made America strong - manufacturing and innovation, energy and education.  Because that's what it'll take to make sure America remains strong in the years ahead - and to leave behind something better for our kids. Thank you.
. But in the days since, the world has witnessed one sure and steadfast truth: Americans refuse to be terrorized. Ultimately, that's what we'll remember from this week.  That's what will remain.  Stories of heroism and kindness; resolve and resilience; generosity and love. The brave first responders - police officers, firefighters, EMTs, and National Guard - who ran toward danger to help their fellow citizens. The race volunteers, spectators, and exhausted runners who rushed to help, including troops and veterans who never expected to see such scenes on the streets of America.  The determined doctors and nurses at some of the world's best hospitals, who have toiled day and night to save so many lives. The big-hearted people of Boston - residents, priests, shopkeepers - who carried victims in their arms; delivered water and blankets; lined up to give blood; opened their homes to total strangers.  And the heroic federal agents and police officers who worked together throughout the week, often at great risk to themselves, to keep our communities safe.  As a country, we are eternally grateful for the profound sacrifices they make in the line of duty - sometimes making the ultimate sacrifice to defend the people they've sworn to protect. If anyone wants to know who we are; what America is; how we respond to evil and terror - that's it.  Selflessly.  Compassionately.  And unafraid.  Through days that would test even the sturdiest of souls, Boston's spirit remains undaunted.  America's spirit remains undimmed.  Our faith in each other, our love for this country, our common creed that cuts across whatever superficial differences we may have - that's what makes us strong.  That's why we endure. In the days to come, we will remain vigilant as a nation.  And I have no doubt the city of Boston and its surrounding communities will continue to respond in the same proud and heroic way that they have thus far - and their fellow Americans will be right there with them every step of the way.  May God bless the people of Boston and the United States of America.
.  Today, I'm speaking to you from the road - a trip to Mexico and Costa Rica.    I'm here because Latin America represents an incredible opportunity for the United States, especially when it comes to my top priority as President: creating good, middle-class jobs.  On Friday, we learned that our businesses created another 176,000 jobs last month.  That's 2.2 million new jobs over the past year, and 6.8 million new jobs over the past 38 months.  But as I've said before, I won't be satisfied until everyone who wants a job can find one. So I'm going to keep doing everything I can and going everywhere I need to go to help our businesses create jobs.  Now, one of the best ways to grow our economy is to sell more goods and services Made in America to the rest of the world.  That includes our neighbors to the south.  Right now, over 40 percent of our exports go to the Americas.  And those exports are growing faster than our trade with the rest of the world.  That's why I visited Latin America this week - to work with leaders to deepen our economic ties and expand trade between our nations. In Mexico, I also talked about immigration reform, because that's an important issue that affects both our countries. The truth is, right now, our border with Mexico is more secure than it's been in years.  We've put more boots on that border than at any time in our history, and illegal crossings are down by nearly 80 percent from their peak in 2000.  But we've got more to do - not just to secure the border but to fix an immigration system that is badly broken. In recent weeks, we've seen a commonsense immigration reform bill introduced in the Senate.  This bill is a compromise, which means that nobody got everything they wanted - including me.  But it's largely consistent with the principles I've laid out from the beginning.  It would continue to strengthen security at our borders and hold employers more accountable if they knowingly hire undocumented workers.  It would provide a pathway to earned citizenship for the 11 million individuals who are already in this country illegally.  And it would modernize our legal immigration system so that we're able to reunite families and attract the highly-skilled entrepreneurs and engineers who will help create good paying jobs and grow our economy.  These are all commonsense steps that the majority of Americans support.  So there's no reason that immigration reform can't become a reality this year.  In the meantime, I'll keep working with our neighbors on our common security and our common prosperity.  Millions of Americans earn a living right now because of the trade between our nations.  And after this week, I'm as confident as ever that we can build on our shared heritage and values to open more markets for American businesses and create more jobs for American workers. Thanks and have a great weekend.
.  Our top priority as a nation is reigniting the true engine of our economic growth - a rising, thriving middle class.  And few things define what it is to be middle class in America more than owning your own cornerstone of the American Dream: a home. Today, seven years after the real estate bubble burst, triggering the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression and costing millions of responsible Americans their jobs and their homes, our housing market is healing.  Sales are up.  Foreclosures are down.  Construction is expanding.  And thanks to rising home prices over the past year, 1.7 million more families have been able to come up for air, because they're no longer underwater on their mortgages. From the day I took office, I've made it a priority to help responsible homeowners and prevent the kind of recklessness that helped cause this crisis in the first place.  My housing plan has already helped more than two million people refinance their mortgages, and they're saving an average of $3000 per year.  My new consumer watchdog agency is moving forward on protections like a simpler, shorter mortgage form that will help to keep hard-working families from getting ripped off. But we've got more work to do.  We've got more responsible homeowners to help - folks who have never missed a mortgage payment, but aren't allowed to refinance; working families who have done everything right, but still owe more on their homes than they're worth. Last week, I nominated a man named Mel Watt to take on these challenges as the head of the Federal Housing Finance Agency.  Mel's represented the people of North Carolina in Congress for 20 years, and in that time, he helped lead efforts to put in place rules of the road that protect consumers from dishonest mortgage lenders, and give responsible Americans the chance to own their own home.  He's the right person for the job, and that's why Congress should do its job, and confirm him without delay. And they shouldn't stop there.  As I said before, more than two million Americans have already refinanced at today's low rates, but we can do a lot better than that.  I've called on Congress to give every responsible homeowner the chance to refinance, and with it, the opportunity to save $3,000 a year.  That's like a $3,000 tax cut.  And if you're one of the millions of Americans who could take advantage of that, you should ask your representative in Congress why they won't act on it.  Our economy and our housing market are poised for progress - but we could do so much more if we work together.  More good jobs.  Greater security for middle-class families.  A sense that your hard work is rewarded.  That's what I'm fighting for - and that's what I'm going to keep fighting for as long as I hold this office. Thank you.  And have a great weekend.
.  Our top priority as a nation is reigniting the true engine of our economic growth - a rising, thriving middle class.  And few things define what it is to be middle class in America more than owning your own cornerstone of the American Dream: a home. Today, seven years after the real estate bubble burst, triggering the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression and costing millions of responsible Americans their jobs and their homes, our housing market is healing.  Sales are up.  Foreclosures are down.  Construction is expanding.  And thanks to rising home prices over the past year, 1.7 million more families have been able to come up for air, because they're no longer underwater on their mortgages. From the day I took office, I've made it a priority to help responsible homeowners and prevent the kind of recklessness that helped cause this crisis in the first place.  My housing plan has already helped more than two million people refinance their mortgages, and they're saving an average of $3000 per year.  My new consumer watchdog agency is moving forward on protections like a simpler, shorter mortgage form that will help to keep hard-working families from getting ripped off. But we've got more work to do.  We've got more responsible homeowners to help - folks who have never missed a mortgage payment, but aren't allowed to refinance; working families who have done everything right, but still owe more on their homes than they're worth. Last week, I nominated a man named Mel Watt to take on these challenges as the head of the Federal Housing Finance Agency.  Mel's represented the people of North Carolina in Congress for 20 years, and in that time, he helped lead efforts to put in place rules of the road that protect consumers from dishonest mortgage lenders, and give responsible Americans the chance to own their own home.  He's the right person for the job, and that's why Congress should do its job, and confirm him without delay. And they shouldn't stop there.  As I said before, more than two million Americans have already refinanced at today's low rates, but we can do a lot better than that.  I've called on Congress to give every responsible homeowner the chance to refinance, and with it, the opportunity to save $3,000 a year.  That's like a $3,000 tax cut.  And if you're one of the millions of Americans who could take advantage of that, you should ask your representative in Congress why they won't act on it.  Our economy and our housing market are poised for progress - but we could do so much more if we work together.  More good jobs.  Greater security for middle-class families.  A sense that your hard work is rewarded.  That's what I'm fighting for - and that's what I'm going to keep fighting for as long as I hold this office. Thank you.  And have a great weekend.
.  Over the past few months, I've laid out a series of commonsense ideas to reignite the true engine of our economic growth: a rising, thriving middle class.  The way I see it, there are three areas where we need to focus.  One: making America a magnet for good jobs.  Two: making sure our workers have the education and skills they need to do those jobs.  And three: making sure your hard work leads to a decent living. I've also been visiting cities across the country that are doing some interesting and creative things along these lines.  On Friday, I stopped by a factory in Baltimore that's creating good jobs here at home by exporting digging equipment abroad.  I read with young kids in a pre-K program, where kids are getting a head start learning the skills they'll need to succeed in life.  And I stopped by a program that's helping folks in tough circumstances - especially low-income dads - get the training and guidance they need to find work and support their families.  That's why I like getting out of the Washington echo chamber whenever I can - because too often, our politics aren't focused on the same things you are.  Working hard.  Supporting your family and your community.  Making sure your kids have every chance in life. More than anything, the American people make me optimistic about where we're headed as a nation.  Especially after all we've been through the past several years.  And that should encourage us to work even harder on the issues that matter to you. In a little over three years, our businesses have created more than 6.5 million new jobs.  And while our unemployment rate is still too high, it's the lowest it's been since 2008.  But now we need to create even more good, middle-class jobs, and we need to do it faster.  Corporate profits have skyrocketed to all-time highs.  But now we need to get middle-class wages and incomes rising too.  Our housing market is healing.  But we still need to help a lot more families stay in their homes, or refinance to take advantage of historically low rates.  And our deficits are shrinking at the fastest rate in decades.  But now we need to budget in a smarter way that doesn't hurt middle-class families or harm critical investments in our future.  So in a lot of sectors, things are looking up.  The American auto industry is thriving.  American energy is booming.  And American ingenuity in our tech sector has the potential to change the way we do almost everything.  In the coming weeks, I'm going to visit more cities like Baltimore, and Austin, Texas - where I was two weeks ago; places where Americans are coming together to strengthen their own communities and economies - and in the process, making this country better for all of us.  And I'm going to keep trying to work with both parties in Washington to make progress on your priorities.  Because I know that if we come together around creating more jobs, educating more of our kids, and building new ladders of opportunity for everyone who's willing to climb them - we'll all prosper, together.   Thanks. And have a great weekend.
.   This week, I've been speaking about America's national security - our past, our present, and our future.  On Thursday, I outlined the future of our fight against terrorism - the threats we face, and the way in which we will meet them. On Friday, I went to Annapolis to celebrate the extraordinary young men and women of the United States Naval Academy's Class of 2013 - the sailors and Marines who will not only lead that fight, but who will lead our country for decades to come. And on Monday, we celebrate Memorial Day.  Unofficially, it's the start of summer - a chance for us to spend some time with family and friends, at barbecues or the beach, getting a little fun and relaxation in before heading back to work.  It's also a day on which we set aside some time, on our own or with our families, to honor and remember all the men and women who have given their lives in service to this country we love. They are heroes, each and every one.  They gave America the most precious thing they had - "the last full measure of devotion."  And because they did, we are who we are today - a free and prosperous nation, the greatest in the world.  At a time when only about one percent of the American people bear the burden of our defense, the service and sacrifice of our men and women in uniform isn't always readily apparent.  That's partly because our soldiers, sailors, airmen, Marines and coast guardsmen are so skilled at what they do.  It's also because those who serve tend to do so quietly.  They don't seek the limelight.  They don't serve for our admiration, or even our gratitude.  They risk their lives, and many give their lives, for something larger than themselves or any of us:  the ideals of liberty and justice that make America a beacon of hope for the world.  That's been true throughout our history - from our earliest days, when a tiny band of revolutionaries stood up to an Empire, to our 9/11 Generation, which continues to serve and sacrifice today.  Every time a threat has risen, Americans have risen to meet it.  And because of that courage - that willingness to fight, and even die - America endures. That is the purpose of Memorial Day.  To remember with gratitude the countless men and women who gave their lives so we could know peace and live in freedom.  And we must do more than remember.  We must care for the loved ones that our fallen service members have left behind. We must make sure all our veterans have the care and benefits they've earned, and the jobs and opportunity they deserve.  We must be there for the military families whose loved ones are in harm's way - for they serve as well. And above all, we must make sure that the men and women of our armed forces have the support they need to achieve their missions safely at home and abroad.  The young men and women I met at the Naval Academy this week know the meaning of service.  They've studied the heroes of our history.  They've chosen to follow in their footsteps - to stand their watch, man a ship, lead a platoon.  They are doing their part.  And each of us must do ours.  So this weekend, as we commemorate Memorial Day, I ask you to hold all our fallen heroes in your hearts.  And every day, let us work together to preserve what their sacrifices achieved - to make our country even stronger, even more fair, even more free.  That is our mission.  It is our obligation.  And it is our privilege, as the heirs of those who came before us, and as citizens of the United States of America. Thank you.
.  Over the past four and a half years, we've been fighting our way back from an economic crisis and punishing recession that cost millions of Americans their jobs, their homes, and the sense of security they'd worked so hard to build.  And thanks to the grit and determination of the American people, our businesses have now created nearly 7 million new jobs over the past 38 months. An auto industry that was flatlining is once again the heartbeat of American manufacturing - with Americans buying more cars than we have in five years. Within the next few months, we're projected to begin producing more of our own crude oil at home than we buy from other countries - the first time that's happened in 16 years. Deficits that were growing for years are now shrinking at the fastest rate in decades.  The rise of health care costs is slowing, too. And a housing market that was in tatters is showing new signs of real strength.  Sales are rising.  Foreclosures are declining.  Construction is expanding.  And home prices that are rising at the fastest rate in nearly seven years are helping a lot of families breathe a lot easier.  Now we need to do more.  This week, my administration announced that we're extending a program to help more responsible families modify their mortgages so they can stay in their homes.  But to keep our housing market and our economy growing, Congress needs to step up and do its part.  Members of Congress will be coming back next week for an important month of work.  We've got to keep this progress going until middle-class families start regaining that sense of security.  And we can't let partisan politics get in the way. Congress should pass a law giving every responsible homeowner the chance to save about $3,000 a year on their mortgage by refinancing at historically low interest rates.  Congress should put more Americans to work rebuilding our crumbling roads and bridges, like the one that collapsed last week in Washington state.  We'd all be safer, and the unemployment rate would fall faster. And Congress should fix our broken immigration system by passing commonsense reform that continues to strengthen our borders; holds employers accountable; provides a pathway to earned citizenship; and also modernizes our legal immigration system so that we're reuniting families and attracting the highly-skilled entrepreneurs and engineers who will help our economy grow.  So there are a lot of reasons to feel optimistic about where we're headed as a country - especially after all we've fought through together.  We've just got to keep going.  Because we've got more good jobs to create.  We've got more kids to educate.  We've got more doors of opportunity to open for anyone who's willing to work hard enough to walk through those doors. And if we work together, I'm as confident as I've ever been that we'll get to where we need to be. Thanks and have a great weekend.
.  Here in America, we know the free market is the greatest force for economic progress the world has ever known.  But we also know the free market works best for everyone when we have smart, commonsense rules in place to prevent irresponsible behavior.  That's why we passed tough reforms to protect consumers and our financial system from the kind of abuse that nearly brought our economy to its knees.  And that's why we've taken steps to end taxpayer-funded bailouts, and make sure businesses and individuals who do the right thing aren't undermined by those who don't. But it's not enough to change the law - we also need cops on the beat to enforce the law.  And that's why, on Thursday, I nominated Mary Jo White to lead the Securities and Exchange Commission, and Richard Cordray to continue leading the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Mary Jo White has decades of experience cracking down on white-collar criminals and bringing mobsters and terrorists to justice.  At the SEC, she will help complete the task of reforming Wall Street and keep going after irresponsible behavior in the financial industry so that taxpayers don't pay the price.  Richard Cordray is a champion for American consumers.  After the Senate refused to allow Richard an up-or-down vote when I nominated him in 2011, I took action to appoint him on my own.  And since then, he's helped protect Americans from predatory lenders, launched a "Know Before You Owe" campaign to help families make smart decisions about paying for college, and cracked down on credit card companies that charge hidden fees.  But Richard's appointment runs out at the end of the year, and in order for him to stay on the job, the Senate needs to finally give him the vote he deserves. As President, my top priority is simple: to do everything in my power to fight for middle-class families and give every American the tools they need to reach the middle class. That means bringing in people like Mary Jo and Richard whose job it is to stand up for you.  It means encouraging businesses to create more jobs and pay higher wages, and improving education and job training so that more people can get the skills that businesses are looking for.  It means reforming our immigration system and keeping our children safe from the menace of gun violence.  And it means bringing down our deficit in a balanced way by making necessary reforms and asking every American to pay their fair share. I am honored and humbled to continue to serve as your President.  And I am more hopeful than ever that four years from now - with your help - this country will be more prosperous, more open, and more committed to the principles on which we were founded. Thanks, and have a great weekend.
.  In the coming weeks, we face some important decisions about how to pay down our debt in a way that grows our economy and creates good jobs - decisions that will make a real difference in the strength and pace of our recovery.  We began this year with economists and business leaders saying that we are poised to grow in 2013.  And there are real signs of progress:  Home prices are starting to climb again.  Car sales are at a five-year high.  Manufacturing is roaring back.  Our businesses created 2.2 million jobs last year.  And we just learned that our economy created more jobs over the last few months than economists originally thought.  But this week, we also received the first estimate of America's economic growth over the last few months.  And it reminded us that bad decisions in Washington can get in the way of our economic progress.    We all agree that it's critical to cut unnecessary spending.  But we can't just cut our way to prosperity.  It hasn't worked in the past, and it won't work today.  It could slow down our recovery.  It could weaken our economy.  And it could cost us jobs - now, and in the future.  What we need instead is a balanced approach; an approach that says let's cut what we can't afford but let's make the investments we can't afford to live without.  Investments in education and infrastructure, research and development - the things that will help America compete for the best jobs and new industries.  Already, Republicans and Democrats have worked together to reduce our deficits by $2.5 trillion.  That's a good start.  But to get the rest of the way, we need a balanced set of reforms.  For example, we need to lower the cost of health care in programs like Medicare that are the biggest drivers of our deficit, without just passing the burden off to seniors.  And these reforms must go hand-in-hand with eliminating excess spending in our tax code, so that the wealthiest individuals and biggest corporations can't take advantage of loopholes and deductions that aren't available to most Americans.  2013 can be a year of solid growth, more jobs, and higher wages.  But that will only happen if we put a stop to self-inflicted wounds in Washington.  Everyone in Washington needs to focus not on politics but on what's right for the country; on what's right for you and your families.  That's how we'll get our economy growing faster.  That's how we'll strengthen our middle class.  And that's how we'll build a country that rewards the effort and determination of every single American.  Thanks.  And have a great weekend.
.  Over the past year, as I traveled across the country campaigning for this office, I told you that if I was fortunate enough to be re-elected, I'd work to change a tax code that too often benefited the wealthy at the expense of the middle class. This week, we did that.  For the first time in two decades, we raised taxes on the wealthiest 2% of Americans in a bipartisan way, while preventing a middle-class tax hike that could have thrown our economy back into recession.  Under this law, more than 98% of Americans and 97% of small business will not see their income taxes go up one dime.  We also made sure that millions of families will continue to receive tax credits to help raise their children and send them to college.  Companies will continue to receive tax credits for the research they do, the investments they make, and the clean energy jobs they create.  And two million Americans who are out of work will continue to receive unemployment benefits so long as they are actively looking for a job. But all this was just one more step in the broader effort to grow our economy and shrink our deficits.  We still need to do more to put Americans back to work while also putting this country on a path to pay down its debt.  And our economy can't afford more protracted showdowns or manufactured crises along the way.  Because even as our businesses created 2 million new jobs last year - including 168,000 new jobs last month - the messy brinksmanship in Congress made business owners more uncertain and consumers less confident. We know there's a path forward.  Last year, I signed into law $1.7 trillion in deficit reduction.  This week's action further reduces the deficit by $737 billion, making it one of the largest deficit reduction bills passed by Congress in over a decade.  And I'm willing to do more.  I believe we can find more places to cut spending without shortchanging things like education, job training, research and technology all which are critical to our prosperity in a 21st century economy.  But spending cuts must be balanced with more reforms to our tax code.  The wealthiest individuals and the biggest corporations shouldn't be able to take advantage of loopholes and deductions that aren't available to most Americans. And as I said earlier this week, one thing I will not compromise over is whether or not Congress should pay the tab for a bill they've already racked up.  If Congress refuses to give the United States the ability to pay its bills on time, the consequences for the entire global economy could be catastrophic.  The last time Congress threatened this course of action, our entire economy suffered for it.  Our families and our businesses cannot afford that dangerous game again.  I congratulate the newly sworn-in Members of Congress, and I look forward to working with the new Congress in a bipartisan way.  If we focus on the interests of our country above the interests of party, I'm convinced we can cut spending and raise revenue in a manner that reduces our deficit and protects the middle class.  And we can step up to meet the important business that awaits us this year. Creating jobs and boosting incomes. Fixing our infrastructure and our immigration system.  Promoting our energy independence while protecting our planet from the harmful effects of climate change.  Educating our children and shielding them from the horrors of gun violence.  These aren't just things we should do - they're things we must do.  And in this New Year, I'll fight as hard as I know how to get them done.  Happy New Year, everybody.
.  Right now, the United States Senate is debating a bipartisan, commonsense bill that would be an important step toward fixing our broken immigration system.  It's a bill that would continue to strengthen security at our borders, and hold employers more accountable if they knowingly hire undocumented workers, so they won't have an unfair advantage over businesses that follow the law. It's a bill that would modernize the legal immigration system so that, as we train American workers for the jobs of tomorrow, we're also attracting the highly skilled entrepreneurs and engineers who grow our economy for everyone. It's a bill that would provide a pathway to earned citizenship for the 11 million individuals who are in this country illegally - a pathway that includes passing a background check, learning English, paying taxes and a penalty, then going to the back of the line behind everyone trying to come here legally. And, a few days ago, a report from the Congressional Budget Office definitively showed that this bipartisan, commonsense bill will help the middle class grow our economy and shrink our deficits, by making sure that every worker in America plays by the same set of rules and pays taxes like everyone else. According to this independent report, reforming our immigration system would reduce our deficits by almost a trillion dollars over the next two decades.  And it will boost our economy by more than 5 percent, in part because of businesses created, investments made, and technologies invented by immigrants.  This comes on the heels of another report from the independent office that monitors Social Security's finances, which says that this immigration bill would actually strengthen the long-term health and solvency of Social Security for future generations. Because with this bill, millions of additional people will start paying more in taxes for things like Social Security and education.  That'll make the economy fairer for middle-class families.  So that's what comprehensive immigration reform looks like.  Stronger enforcement.  A smarter legal immigration system.  A pathway to earned citizenship.  A more vibrant, growing economy that's fairer on the middle class.  And a more stable fiscal future for our kids.  Now, the bill isn't perfect.  It's a compromise.  Nobody is going to get everything they want - not Democrats, not Republicans, not me.  But it's consistent with the principles that I and others have laid out for commonsense reform.  That's why Republicans and Democrats, CEOs and labor leaders, are saying that now is the time to pass this bill.  If you agree with us, reach out to your Senators and Representatives.  Tell them that the time for excuses is over; it's time to fix our broken immigration system once and for all. We can do this, because we are a nation of laws and a nation of immigrants; a place enriched by the contributions of people from all over the world, and stronger for it.  That's been the story of America from the start.  Let's keep it going.  Thanks, and have a great weekend.
.  A few days ago, I unveiled a new national plan to confront the growing threat of a changing climate.  Decades of carefully reviewed science tells us our planet is changing in ways that will have profound impacts on the world we leave to our children.  Already, we know that the 12 warmest years in recorded history have all come in the last 15, and that last year was the warmest in American history.  And while we know no single weather event is caused solely by climate change, we also know that in a world that's getting warmer than it used to be, all weather events are affected by it - more extreme droughts, floods, wildfires, and hurricanes. Those who already feel the effects of a changing climate don't have time to deny it - they're busy dealing with it.  The firefighters who brave longer wildfire seasons.  The farmers who see crops wilted one year, and washed away the next.  Western families worried about water that's drying up.  The cost of these events can be measured in lost lives and livelihoods, lost homes and businesses, and hundreds of billions of dollars in emergency services and disaster relief.  And Americans across the country are already paying the price of inaction in higher food costs, insurance premiums, and the tab for rebuilding. The question is not whether we need to act.  The question is whether we will have the courage to act before it's too late. The national Climate Action Plan I unveiled will cut carbon pollution, protect our country from the impacts of climate change, and lead the world in a coordinated assault on a changing climate. To reduce carbon pollution, I've directed the Environmental Protection Agency to work with states and businesses to set new standards that put an end to the limitless dumping of carbon pollution from our power plants.  We'll use more clean energy and waste less energy throughout our economy.  To prepare Americans for the impacts of climate change we can't stop, we'll work with communities to build smarter, more resilient infrastructure to protect our homes and businesses, and withstand more powerful storms.  And America will lead global efforts to combat the threat of a changing climate by encouraging developing nations to transition to cleaner sources of energy, and by engaging our international partners in this fight - for while we compete for business, we also share a planet.  And we must all shoulder the responsibility for its future together. This is the fight America can and will lead in the 21st century.  But it will require all of us, as citizens, to do our part.  We'll need scientists to design new fuels, and farmers to grow them.   We'll need engineers to devise new technologies, and businesses to make and sell them.  We'll need workers to man assembly lines that hum with high-tech, zero-carbon components, and builders to hammer into place the foundations for a new clean energy age.  We'll need to give special care to people and communities unsettled by this transition.  And those of us in positions of responsibility will need to be less concerned with the judgment of special interests and well-connected donors, and more concerned with the judgment of our children.  If you agree with me, I'll need you to act.  Educate your classmates and colleagues, your family and friends.  Speak up in your communities.  Remind everyone who represents you, at every level of government, that there is no contradiction between a sound environment and a strong economy - and that sheltering future generations against the ravages of climate change is a prerequisite for your vote. We will be judged - as a people, as a society, and as a country - on where we go from here.  The plan I have put forward to reduce carbon pollution and protect our country from the effects of climate change is the path we need to take.  And if we remember what's at stake - the world we leave to our children - I'm convinced that this is a challenge that we will meet. Thank you, and have a great weekend.
.  In the next few days, America will take an important step towards fixing our broken immigration system.  The entire United States Senate will begin debating a commonsense immigration reform bill that has bipartisan support. See, we define ourselves as a nation of immigrants.  The promise we find in those who come from every corner of the globe has always been one of our greatest strengths.  It's kept our workforce vibrant and dynamic.  It's kept our businesses on the cutting edge.  And it's helped build the greatest economic engine the world has ever known.  But for years, our out-of-date immigration system has actually harmed our economy and threatened our security. Now, over the past four years, we've taken steps to try and patch up some of the worst cracks in the system.  We strengthened security on the southern border by putting more boots on the ground than at any time in our history.  And, in part, by using technology more effectively - today, illegal crossings are near their lowest level in decades.     We focused enforcement efforts on criminals who are here illegally - who endanger our communities - and today, we deport more criminals than ever before. And we took up the cause of "Dreamers," the young people who were brought to this country as children.  We said that if they're able to meet certain criteria, we'd consider offering them the chance to come out of the shadows so they can continue to work here, and study here, and contribute to our communities legally.  But if we're going to truly fix a broken system, we need Congress to act in a comprehensive way.  And that's why what's happening next week is so important. The bill before the Senate isn't perfect.  It's a compromise.  Nobody will get everything they want - not Democrats, not Republicans, not me.  But it is a bill that's largely consistent with the principles I've repeatedly laid out for commonsense immigration reform. This bill would continue to strengthen security at our borders, increase criminal penalties against smugglers and traffickers, and hold employers more accountable if they knowingly hire undocumented workers.  If enacted, it would represent the most ambitious enforcement plan in recent memory. This bill would provide a pathway to earned citizenship for the 11 million individuals who are in this country illegally - a pathway that includes passing a background check, learning English, paying taxes and a penalty, and then going to the back of the line behind everyone who's playing by the rules and trying to come here legally.    This bill would modernize the legal immigration system so that, alongside training American workers for the jobs of tomorrow, we're also attracting highly-skilled entrepreneurs and engineers who will grow our economy.  And so that our people don't have to wait years before their loved ones are able to join them in this country we love. That's what immigration reform looks like.  Smarter enforcement.  A pathway to earned citizenship.  Improvements to the legal immigration system.   They're all commonsense steps.  They've got broad support - from Republicans and Democrats, CEOs and labor leaders, law enforcement and clergy.  So there is no reason that Congress can't work together to send a bill to my desk by the end of the summer.  We know the opponents of reform are going to do everything they can to prevent that.  They'll try to stoke fear and create division.  They'll try to play politics with an issue that the vast majority of Americans want addressed.  And if they succeed, we will lose this chance to finally fix an immigration system that is badly broken.     So if you agree that now is the time for commonsense reform, reach out to your Representatives.  Tell them we have to get this done so that everyone is playing by the same rules.  Tell them we have the power to do this in a way that lives up to our traditions as a nation of laws, and a nation of immigrants.  In the end, that's what this is all about.  Men and women who want nothing more than the chance to earn their way into the American story, just like so many of our ancestors did.  Throughout our history, that has only made us stronger.  And it's how we'll make sure that America's best days always lie ahead.  Thanks.  And have a great weekend.
.  On Wednesday, I spoke about what we need to do as a country to build a better bargain for the middle class - to make sure everyone who works hard has a chance to get ahead in the 21st century economy.  You see, over the past four and a half years, America has fought its way back from the worst recession of our lifetimes.  We saved the auto industry, took on a broken health care system, invested in new American technologies to reverse our addiction to foreign oil, and changed a tax code too skewed in favor of the wealthiest at the expense of working families. As a result, our businesses have created 7.2 million new jobs over the past 40 months.  We produce more renewable energy than ever, and more natural gas than anyone.  Health care costs are growing at the slowest rate in 50 years.  Our deficits are falling at the fastest rate in 60 years.  Thanks to the grit and resilience of the American people, we've cleared away the rubble of crisis and begun to lay a new foundation for stronger, more durable economic growth.  But as any middle-class family will tell you, we're not yet where we need to be.  Trends that have been eroding middle-class security for decades - technology that makes some jobs obsolete, global competition that makes others moveable, growing inequality and the policies that perpetuate it - all these things still exist, and in some ways, the recession made them worse. Reversing these trends must be Washington's highest priority.  It sure is mine.  But over the past couple of years in particular, Washington has taken its eye off the ball.  An endless parade of distractions, political posturing and phony scandals shift focus from what needs to be done.  And as Washington prepares to enter another budget debate, the stakes could not be higher.  The choices we make now will determine whether or not every American has a fighting chance in the 21st century. If we don't make the investments necessary to make America a magnet for good jobs - in education, and manufacturing, and research, and our transportation and information networks - we might as well hit the "pause" button while the rest of the world forges ahead in a global economy.  And that's certainly not going to fix what ails the middle class. Here's what will: a strategy that builds on the cornerstones of what it means to be middle class in America, and what it takes to work your way into the middle class.  Good jobs that pay good wages.  An education that prepares our children and our workers for the global competition they'll face.  Homeownership that's based on a solid foundation, where buyers and lenders play by the same set of rules.  Affordable health care that's there for you when you get sick.  A secure retirement even if you're not rich.  More chances for folks to earn their way into the middle class as long as they're willing to work for it. Over the next several weeks, in cities and towns across the country, I'll continue to lay out my ideas in each of these areas.  Because reversing the forces that have conspired against the middle class for decades will require more than short-term thinking; it will require a long-term American strategy, based on steady, persistent effort.  I know there are members of both parties who understand what's at stake, and I'm open to ideas from across the political spectrum, as long as they meet the test of strengthening the prospects of hard-working families.  But repealing Obamacare, gutting critical investments in our future, threatening to default on the bills this country has already racked up, or shutting down the government just because I'm for keeping it open - none of those thing add up to an economic plan.  None of that will take this country where it needs to go. We can do this if we work together.  It won't be easy, but if we take a few bold steps - and if Washington is willing to shake off its complacency and set aside some of the slash-and-burn partisanship we've seen in recent years - our economy will keep getting stronger. And as long as I have the privilege of holding this office, I will spend every minute of every day doing everything in my power to make this economy work for working Americans again; to build that better bargain for the middle class; to make sure that the American Dream is something that's achievable for everybody - not just today, but for decades to come. Thanks, and have a great weekend.
.  This week, I went down to an Amazon warehouse in Tennessee to talk more about what we need to do to secure a better bargain for the middle class - to make sure that anyone who works hard can get ahead in the 21st century economy. Over the past four and a half years, we've fought our way back from the worst recession of our lifetimes and begun to lay a foundation for stronger, more durable economic growth.  Today, our businesses have created 7.3 million new jobs over the last 41 months.  We now sell more products made in America to the rest of the world than ever before.  Health care costs are growing at the slowest rate in 50 years, and our deficits are falling at the fastest rate in 60 years. But as any middle-class family will tell you, we're not where we need to be yet.  Even before the crisis hit, we were living through a decade where a few at the top were doing better and better, while most families were working harder and harder just to get by. Reversing this trend must be Washington's highest priority.  It's certainly mine.  But too often over the past two years, Washington has taken its eye off the ball.  They've allowed an endless parade of political posturing and phony scandals to distract from growing our economy and strengthening the middle class. That's why I'm laying out my ideas for how we can build on the cornerstones of what it means to be middle class in America.  A good education.  A home of your own.  Health care when you get sick.  A secure retirement even if you're not rich.  And the most important cornerstone of all: a good job in a durable, growing industry. When it comes to creating more good jobs that pay decent wages, the problem is not a lack of ideas.  Plenty of independent economists, business owners and people from both parties agree on what we have to do.  I proposed many of these ideas two years ago in the American Jobs Act.  And this week, I put forward common-sense proposals for how we can create more jobs in manufacturing; in wind, solar and natural gas; and by rebuilding America's infrastructure. What we're lacking is action from Washington.  And that's why, in addition to proposing ideas that we know will grow our economy, I've also put forward a strategy for breaking through the Washington logjam - a "grand bargain" for the middle class. I'm willing to work with Republicans to simplify our tax code for businesses large and small, but only if we take the money we save by transitioning to a simpler tax system and make a significant investment in creating good, middle-class jobs.  We can put construction workers back on the job rebuilding our infrastructure.  We can boost manufacturing, so more American companies can sell their products around the world.  And we can help our community colleges arm our workers with the skills they need in a global economy - all without adding a dime to the deficit. I'll keep laying out my ideas to give the middle class a better shot in the 21st century, and I'll keep reaching out to Republicans for theirs.  But gutting critical investments in our future and threatening national default on the bills that Congress has already racked up - that's not an economic plan.  Denying health care to millions of Americans, or shutting down the government just because I'm for keeping it open - that won't help the middle class.  The truth is, there are no gimmicks when it comes to creating jobs.  There are no tricks to grow the economy.  Reversing the long erosion of middle-class security in this country won't be easy.  But if we work together and take a few bold steps - and if Washington is willing to set aside politics and focus on what really matters - we can grow our economy and give the middle class a better bargain.  And together, we can make this country a place where everyone who works hard can get ahead. Thanks, and have a great weekend.
.  For the past few weeks, I've been visiting folks across America to talk about what we need to do as a country to secure a better bargain for the middle class.  I've been laying out my ideas for how we can build on the cornerstones of what it means to be middle class in America.  A good job.  A good education.  Affordable health care when you get sick.  A secure retirement even if you're not rich.  And the chance to own your own home.  This week, I went to Arizona and California, two of the states hit hardest when the housing bubble burst, triggering the recession.  All across the country, millions of responsible Americans were hurt badly by the reckless actions of others.  Home values plummeted. Construction workers were laid off.  And many families lost their homes.  Over the past four years, we've worked to help millions of responsible homeowners get back on their feet.  And while we're not where we need to be yet, our housing market is beginning to heal.  Home prices and sales are rising. Construction is up.  Foreclosures are down.  Millions of families have come up for air because they're no longer underwater on their mortgages.  Now we have to build on this progress.  Congress should give every American the chance to refinance at today's low rates.  We should help more qualified families get a mortgage and buy their first home.  We should get construction workers back on the job rebuilding communities hit hardest by the crisis.  And we should make sure that folks who don't want to buy a home have  decent, affordable places to rent.  As home prices rise, we have to turn the page on the bubble-and-bust mentality that created this mess, and build a housing system that's rock-solid and rewards responsibility for generations to come.  We need to wind down the companies known as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, make sure private capital plays a bigger role in the mortgage market, and end the era of expecting a bailout after your pursuit of profit puts the whole country at risk. We need to preserve access to safe and simple mortgages like the 30-year, fixed-rate mortgage.  We need to keep laying down rules of the road that protect homeowners when they're making the biggest purchase of their lives.  And finally, Congress needs to confirm Mel Watt to be our nation's top housing regulator, so that he can protect consumers and help responsible lenders provide credit.  No program or policy will solve all the problems in a multi-trillion dollar housing market, and it will take time to fully recover.  But if we work together, we can make a home a source of pride and middle-class security again.  And if Washington is willing to set aside politics and focus on what really matters, we can rebuild an economy where if you work hard, you can get ahead. Thanks, and have a great weekend.
.  Over the past few weeks, I've been visiting with Americans across the country to talk about what we need to do to secure a better bargain for the middle class. We need to rebuild an economy that rewards hard work and responsibility; an economy built firmly on the cornerstones of middle-class life.  Good jobs.  A good education.  A home of your own.  A secure retirement.  And quality, affordable health care that's there when you need it. Right now, we're well on our way to fully implementing the Affordable Care Act.  And in the next few months, we'll reach a couple milestones with real meaning for millions of Americans. If you're one of the 85% of Americans who already have insurance, you've already got new benefits and protections under this law that you didn't before.  Free checkups, mammograms, and contraceptive care.  Discounted prescription medicine on Medicare.  The fact you can stay on your parents' plan until you turn 26.  And much, much more.  And it's okay if you're not a fan of the Affordable Care Act - you can take advantage of these things anyway. If you don't have insurance, beginning on October 1st, private plans will actually compete for your business.  You can comparison shop in an online marketplace, just like you would for cell phone plans or plane tickets.  You may be eligible for new tax credits to help you afford the plan that's right for you.  And if you're in the up to half of all Americans who've been sick or have a preexisting condition, this law means that beginning January 1st, insurance companies have to cover you - and they can't use your medical history to charge you more than anybody else.  You can find out more about the law, and how to sign up to buy your own coverage right now at HealthCare.gov.  Tell your friends and neighbors without insurance about it, too.  And tell your kids that there's a new, easy way to buy affordable plans specifically tailored to young people. Many Members of Congress, in both parties, are working hard to inform their constituents about these benefits, protections, and affordable plans.  But there's also a group of Republicans in Congress working hard to confuse people, and making empty promises that they'll either shut down the health care law, or, if they don't get their way, they'll shut down the government. Think about that.  They're actually having a debate between hurting Americans who will no longer be denied affordable care just because they've been sick - and harming the economy and millions of Americans in the process.  And many Republicans are more concerned with how badly this debate will hurt them politically than they are with how badly it'll hurt the country. A lot of Republicans seem to believe that if they can gum up the works and make this law fail, they'll somehow be sticking it to me.  But they'd just be sticking it to you.  Some even say that if you call their office with questions about the law, they'll refuse to help.  Call me old-fashioned - but that's lousy constituent service.  And it's not what you deserve. Your health insurance isn't something to play politics with.  Our economy isn't something to play politics with.  This isn't a game.  This is about the economic security of millions of families. See, in the states where governors and legislatures and insurers are working together to implement this law properly - states like California, New York, Colorado and Maryland - competition and consumer choice are actually making insurance affordable.  So I'm going to keep doing everything in my power to make sure this law works as it's supposed to.  Because in the United States of America, health insurance isn't a privilege - it is your right.  And we're going to keep it that way. Thanks.  And have a great weekend.
.  I hope you all had a safe and happy Fourth of July, filled with parades, cookouts, fireworks and family reunions.     We celebrated at the White House with a few hundred members of the military and their families. And we took a moment amid the festivities to remember what our Independence Day is all about - what happened 237 years ago, and what it meant to the world. On July 4th, 1776, a small band of patriots declared that we were a people created equal - free to think and worship and live as we please.  It was a declaration heard around the world - that we were no longer colonists, we were Americans, and our destiny would not be determined for us; it would be determined by us. It was a bold and tremendously brave thing to do.  It was also nearly unthinkable.  At that time, kings and princes and emperors ruled the world.  But those patriots were certain that a better way was possible.  And to achieve it - to win their freedom - they were willing to lay it all on the line.  Their lives.  Their fortunes.  Their sacred honor.  They fought a revolution.  Few would have bet on our side to win.  But for the first of many times to come, America proved the doubters wrong.  And now, 237 years later, the United States - this improbable nation - is the greatest in the world.  A land of liberty and opportunity.  A global defender of peace and freedom.  A beacon of hope to people everywhere who cherish those ideals.  Generations of Americans made our country what it is today - farmers and teachers, engineers and laborers, entrepreneurs and elected leaders - people from all walks of life, from all parts of the world, all pulling in the same direction.  And now we, the people, must make their task our own - to live up to the words of that Declaration of Independence, and secure liberty and opportunity for our own children, and for future generations. I want to say a special word of thanks to the men and women of our military, who have played such a vital role in the story of our nation.  You have defended us at home and abroad.  And you have fought on our nation's behalf to make the world a better, safer place.  People in scattered corners of the world are living in peace today, free to write their own futures, because of you.  We are grateful for your service and your sacrifice, especially those still serving in harm's way and your families here at home. So, God bless you all.  And may God bless the United States of America.
.  Two weeks ago, a large bipartisan majority of Senators voted to pass commonsense, comprehensive immigration reform - taking an important step towards fixing our broken immigration system once and for all. This bill was a compromise, and neither side got everything they wanted.  But it was largely consistent with the key principles of commonsense reform that most of us in both parties have repeatedly laid out.  If passed, the Senate's plan would build on the historic gains we've made in border security over the past four years with the most aggressive border security plan in our history.  It would offer a pathway to earned citizenship for the 11 million people who are in this country illegally - a pathway that includes paying penalties, learning English, and going to the end of the line behind everyone trying to come here legally.  And it would modernize our legal immigration system to make it more consistent with our values. The Senate's plan would also provide a big boost to our recovery.  And on Wednesday, we released a report detailing exactly how big a boost that would be.  The report is based on the findings of independent, nonpartisan economists and experts who concluded that, if the Senate's plan becomes law, our economy will be 5% larger in two decades compared to the status quo.  That's $1.4 trillion added to our economy just by fixing our immigration system. Here in America, we've always been a nation of immigrants.  That's what's kept our workforce dynamic, our businesses on the cutting edge, and our economy the strongest in the world.   But under the current system, too many smart, hardworking immigrants are prevented from contributing to that success. Immigration reform would make it easier for highly-skilled immigrants and those who study at our colleges and universities to start businesses and create jobs right here in America.   Foreign companies would be more likely to invest here.  The demand for goods and services would go up - creating more jobs for American workers.  Every worker and business would be required to pay their fair share in taxes, reducing our deficit by nearly $850 billion over the next two decades.  And since a large portion of those taxes go towards retirement programs that millions of Americans depend on, Social Security would actually get stronger over the long-term - adding two years to the life of the program's trust fund. That's what immigration reform would mean for our economy - but only if we act.  If we don't do anything to fix our broken system, our workforce will continue to shrink as baby boomers retire.  We won't benefit from highly-skilled immigrants starting businesses and creating jobs here.  American workers will have to make due with lower wages and fewer protections.  And without more immigrants and businesses paying their fair share in taxes, our deficit will be higher and programs like Social Security will be under more strain. We've been debating this issue for more than a decade - ever since President Bush first proposed the broad outlines of immigration reform - and I think he gave a very good speech this past week expressing his hope that a bipartisan, comprehensive bill can become law.  If Democrats and Republicans - including President Bush and I - can agree on something, that's a pretty good place to start.  Now the House needs to act so I can sign commonsense immigration reform into law.  And if you agree, tell your Representatives that now is the time.  Call or email or post on their Facebook walls and ask them to get this done.  Because together, we can grow our economy and keep America strong for years to come. Thanks, and have a great weekend.
.  Three years ago this weekend, we put in place tough new rules of the road for the financial sector so that irresponsible behavior on the part of the few could never again cause a crisis that harms millions of middle-class families. As part of that reform, we set up the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the first-ever independent consumer watchdog with one job: to protect families from that sort of behavior.  Two years ago, I nominated a man named Rich Cordray, a former attorney general from Ohio, to run this consumer protection bureau.  But Republicans in the Senate refused to give him a simple up-or-down vote, not because they didn't think he was the right person for the job, but because they didn't like the law that set up the consumer watchdog in the first place.  So last year, I acted on my own to put him in charge - because without a director, the CFPB couldn't use all the tools at its disposal to protect consumers from shady mortgage lenders, or unscrupulous credit reporting agencies, or predatory lenders who targeted veterans and seniors.  And I'm pleased to say that he was finally confirmed this week by a bipartisan vote. Because of the work that's been done at the CFPB over the past two years, today, mortgage lenders, student lenders, payday lenders, and credit reporting and debt collection agencies all face greater scrutiny.  And if they don't play by the rules, you now have somewhere to go to get some measure of justice.  In fact, the CFPB has already addressed more than 175,000 complaints from every state. Today, as part of the CFPB's "Know Before You Owe" efforts, students and their parents can get a simple report with the information they need to make informed decisions before taking out student loans - and more than 700 colleges have stepped up to make this information clear and transparent.   And if you've noticed that some credit card forms are actually easier to understand than they used to be, that's because of the work that Rich's team and others in the Administration have done. Today, veterans have the tools they need to defend against dishonest lenders and mortgage brokers who try to prey on them when they come home.  Seniors are better protected from someone who sees their homes or retirement savings as an easy target.  And thanks to the hard work of folks at the CFPB, so far six million Americans have gotten more than $400 million in refunds from companies that engaged in unscrupulous practices.  That's money we didn't have the power to recover before. You know, we've come a long way over the past four and a half years.  Our economy's growing.  Our businesses have created 7.2 million new jobs in the past 40 months.  We've locked in new safeguards to protect against another crisis and end bailouts for good.  And even though more work remains, our financial system is more fair and much more sound than it was. We've still got a long way to go to restore the sense of security that too many middle-class families are still fighting to rebuild.  But if we keep moving forward with our eyes fixed on that North Star of a growing middle class, then I'm confident we'll get to where we need to go. Thanks, and have a great weekend.
- in part because of the credible threat of U.S. military force - there is the possibility of a diplomatic solution.  Russia has indicated a new willingness to join with the international community in pushing Syria to give up its chemical weapons, which the Assad regime used in an attack that killed more than 1,000 people on August 21.  I also asked Congress to postpone a vote on the use of military force while we pursue this diplomatic path.  And that's what we're doing.    At my direction, Secretary of State Kerry is in discussions with his Russian counterpart.  But we're making it clear that this can't be a stalling tactic.  Any agreement needs to verify that the Assad regime and Russia are keeping their commitments: that means working to turn Syria's chemical weapons over to international control and ultimately destroying them.  This would allow us to achieve our goal - deterring the Syrian regime from using chemical weapons, degrading their ability to use them, and making it clear to the world that we won't tolerate their use. We've seen indications of progress.  As recently as a week ago, the Assad regime would not admit that it possessed chemical weapons.  Today, it does.  Syria has signaled a willingness to join with 189 other nations, representing 98 percent of humanity, in abiding by an international agreement that prohibits the use of chemical weapons.  And Russia has staked its own credibility on supporting this outcome. These are all positive developments.  We'll keep working with the international community to see that Assad gives up his chemical weapons so that they can be destroyed.  We will continue rallying support from allies around the world who agree on the need for action to deter the use of chemical weapons in Syria.  And if current discussions produce a serious plan, I'm prepared to move forward with it.  But we are not just going to take Russia and Assad's word for it.  We need to see concrete actions to demonstrate that Assad is serious about giving up his chemical weapons.  And since this plan emerged only with a credible threat of U.S. military action, we will maintain our military posture in the region to keep the pressure on the Assad regime.  And if diplomacy fails, the United States and the international community must remain prepared to act. The use of chemical weapons anywhere in the world is an affront to human dignity and a threat to the security of people everywhere.  As I have said for weeks, the international community must respond to this outrage.  A dictator must not be allowed to gas children in their beds with impunity.  And we cannot risk poison gas becoming the new weapon of choice for tyrants and terrorists the world over.  We have a duty to preserve a world free from the fear of chemical weapons for our children.  But if there is any chance of achieving that goal without resorting to force, then I believe we have a responsibility to pursue that path.  Thank you.
.  It was five years ago this week that a financial crisis on Wall Street spread to Main Street, and very nearly turned a recession into a depression.  In a matter of months, millions of Americans were robbed of their jobs, their homes, their savings - after a decade in which they'd already been working harder and harder to just get by.  It was a crisis from which we're still trying to recover.  But thanks to the grit and determination of the American people, we are steadily recovering.  Over the past three and a half years, our businesses have created seven and a half million new jobs. Our housing market is healing. We've become less dependent on foreign oil.  Health care costs are growing at the slowest rate in 50 years.  And in just over a week, millions of Americans without health care will be able to get covered for less than $100 a month.  So our economy is gaining traction. And we're finally tackling threats to middle-class prosperity that Washington neglected for far too long.  But as any middle-class family listening right now knows, we've got a long way to go to get to where we need to be.  And after five years spent digging out of crisis, the last thing we need is for Washington to manufacture another. But that's what will happen in the next few weeks if Congress doesn't meet two deadlines. First: the most basic Constitutional duty Congress has is passing a budget.  But if it doesn't pass one before September 30th - a week from Monday - the government will shut down.  And so will many services the American people expect.  Military personnel, including those deployed overseas, won't get their paychecks on time.  Federal loans for rural communities, small business owners, and new home buyers will be frozen.  Critical research into life-saving discoveries and renewable energy will be immediately halted. All of this will be prevented if Congress just passes a budget. Second: Congress must authorize the Treasury to pay America's bills.  This is done with a simple, usually routine vote to raise what's called the debt ceiling.  Since the 1950s, Congress has always passed it, and every President has signed it - Democrats and Republicans, including President Reagan.  And if this Congress doesn't do it within the next few weeks, the United States will default on its obligations and put our entire economy at risk.  This is important: raising the debt ceiling is not the same as approving more spending.  It lets us pay for what Congress already spent.  It doesn't cost a dime, or add a penny to our deficit.  In fact, right now, our deficits are already falling at the fastest rate since the end of World War II.  And by the end of this year, we'll have cut our deficits by more than half since I took office.  But reducing our deficits and debt isn't even what the current standoff in Congress is about.  Now, Democrats and some reasonable Republicans are willing to raise the debt ceiling and pass a sensible budget - one that cuts spending on what we don't need so we can invest in what we do.  And I want to work with those Democrats and Republicans on a better bargain for the middle class. But there's also a faction on the far right of the Republican party who've convinced their leadership to threaten a government shutdown if they can't shut off the Affordable Care Act.  Some are actually willing to plunge America into default if they can't defund the Affordable Care Act.  Think about that.  They'd actually plunge this country back into recession - all to deny the basic security of health care to millions of Americans. Well, that's not happening.  And they know it's not happening. The United States of America is not a deadbeat nation.  We are a compassionate nation.  We are the world's bedrock investment.  And doing anything to threaten that is the height of irresponsibility.  That's why I will not negotiate over the full faith and credit of the United States.  I will not allow anyone to harm this country's reputation, or threaten to inflict economic pain on millions of our own people, just to make an ideological point. So, we are running out of time to fix this.  But we could fix it tomorrow.  Both houses of Congress can take a simple vote to pay our bills on time, then work together to pass a budget on time. Then we can declare an end to governing by crisis and govern responsibly, by putting our focus back where it should always be - on creating new jobs, growing our economy, and expanding opportunity not just for ourselves, but for future generations. Thank you.
.  This Tuesday is an important day for families, businesses, and our economy.  It's the day a big part of the Affordable Care Act kicks in, and tens of millions of Americans will finally have the same chance to buy quality, affordable health care as everyone else. It's also the day that a group of far-right Republicans in Congress might choose to shut down the government and potentially damage the economy just because they don't like this law. I'll get to that in a second.  But first - here's what the Affordable Care Act means for you. If you're one of the vast majority of Americans who already have health care, you already have new benefits you didn't before, like free mammograms and contraceptive care with no copay, and discounts on prescription medicine for seniors.  You've already got new protections in place too, like no more lifetime limits on your care, no more discriminating against children with preexisting conditions like asthma, or being able to stay on your parents' plan until you turn 26. That's all in place and available to Americans with health insurance right now. If you don't have health insurance, or if you buy it on the individual market, then starting this Tuesday, October 1st, you can visit HealthCare.gov to find what's called the health insurance marketplace in your state.   This is a website where you can compare insurance plans, side-by-side, the same way you'd shop for a TV or a plane ticket.  You'll see new choices and new competition.  Many of you will see cheaper prices, and many of you will be eligible for tax credits that bring down your costs even more.  Nearly 6 in 10 uninsured Americans will be able to get coverage for $100 or less. If you're one of the up to half of Americans with a preexisting condition, these new plans mean your insurer can no longer charge you more than anyone else.  They can't charge women more than men for the same coverage.  And they take effect January 1st. So get covered at HealthCare.gov.  And spread the word.  These marketplaces will be open for business on Tuesday, no matter what.  The Affordable Care Act is one of the most important things we've done as a country in decades to strengthen economic security for the middle class and all who strive to join the middle class.  And it is going to work. That's also one of the reasons it's so disturbing that Republicans in Congress are threatening to shut down the government - or worse - if I don't agree to gut this law.  Congress has two responsibilities right now: pass a budget on time, and pay our bills on time.  If Congress doesn't pass a budget by Monday - the end of the fiscal year - the government shuts down, along with many vital services the American people depend on.  On Friday, the Senate passed a bill to keep the government open.  But Republicans in the House have been more concerned with appeasing an extreme faction of their party than working to pass a budget that creates new jobs or strengthens the middle class.  And in the next couple days, these Republicans will have to decide whether to join the Senate and keep the government open, or create a crisis that will hurt people for the sole purpose of advancing their ideological agenda. Past government shutdowns have disrupted the economy.  This shutdown would, too.  At a moment when our economy has steadily gained traction, and our deficits have been falling faster than at any time in 60 years, a shutdown would be a purely self-inflicted wound.  And that's why many Republican Senators and Republican governors have urged Republicans in the House of Representatives to knock it off, pass a budget, and move on. This brings me to the second responsibility Congress has.  Once they vote to keep the government open, they must also vote within the next couple weeks to allow the Treasury to pay the bills for the money that Congress has already spent.  Failure to meet this responsibility would be far more dangerous than a government shutdown - it would be an economic shutdown, with impacts not just here, but around the world. Unfortunately some Republicans have suggested that unless I agree to an even longer list of demands - not just gutting the health care law, but things like cutting taxes for millionaires or rolling back rules on big banks and polluters- they'll push the button, throwing America into default for the first time in history and risk throwing us back into recession. I will work with anyone who wants to have a serious conservation about our economic future.  But I will not negotiate over Congress' responsibility to pay the bills it has already racked up.  I don't know how to be more clear about this: no one gets to threaten the full faith and credit of the United States of America just to extract ideological concessions.  No one gets to hurt our economy and millions of innocent people just because there are a couple laws you don't like.  It hasn't been done in the past, and we're not going to start doing it now. The American people have worked too hard to recover from crisis to see extremists in their Congress cause another one. And every day this goes on is another day that we can't continue the work of rebuilding the great American middle class.  Congress needs to pass a budget in time, pay its bills on time, and refocus on the everyday concerns of the people who sent them there. That's what I'm focused on.  That's what I'll keep fighting for. Thank you.
.  Earlier this week, the Republican House of Representatives chose to shut down a government they don't like over a health care law they don't like.  And I've talked a lot about the real-world consequences of this shutdown in recent days - the services disrupted; the benefits delayed; the public servants kicked off the job without pay.   But today, I want to let the Americans dealing with those real-world consequences have their say.  And these are just a few of the many heartbreaking letters I've gotten from them in the past couple weeks - including more than 30,000 over the past few days.   Kelly Mumper lives in rural Alabama.  She works in early education, and has three children of her own in the Marines.  Here's what she wrote to me on Wednesday.   "Our Head Start agency...was forced to stop providing services on October 1st for over 770 children, and 175 staff were furloughed.  I am extremely concerned for the welfare of these children.  There are parents who work and who attend school.  Where are they leaving their children...is it a safe environment...are [they] getting the food that they receive at their Head Start program?"   On the day Julia Pruden's application to buy a home for her and her special needs children was approved by the USDA's rural development direct loan program, she wrote me from Minot, North Dakota.   "We put in an offer to purchase a home this weekend, and it was accepted...if funding does not go through, our chances of the American Dream [are] down the drain...We have worked really hard to get our credit to be acceptable to purchase a home...if it weren't for the direct lending program provided by the USDA, we would not qualify to buy the home we found."   These are just two of the many letters I've received from people who work hard; try to make ends meet; try to do right by their families.  They're military or military spouses who've seen commissaries closed on their bases.  They're veterans worried the services they've earned won't be there.  They're business owners who've seen their contracts with the government put on hold, worried they'll have to let people go.  I want them to know, I read the stories you share with me.   These are our fellow Americans.  These are the people who sent us here to serve.  And I know that Republicans in the House of Representatives are hearing the same kinds of stories, too.   As I made clear to them this week, there's only one way out of this reckless and damaging shutdown: pass a budget that funds our government, with no partisan strings attached.  The Senate has already done this.  And there are enough Republican and Democratic votes in the House of Representatives willing to do the same, and end this shutdown immediately.  But the far right of the Republican Party won't let Speaker John Boehner give that bill a yes-or-no vote.   Take that vote.  Stop this farce.  End this shutdown now.   The American people don't get to demand ransom in exchange for doing their job. Neither does Congress. They don't get to hold our democracy or our economy hostage over a settled law. They don't get to kick a child out of Head Start if I don't agree to take her parents' health insurance away. That's not how our democracy is supposed to work.  That's why I won't pay a ransom in exchange for reopening the government. And I certainly won't pay a ransom in exchange for raising the debt ceiling. For as reckless as a government shutdown is, an economic shutdown that comes with default would be dramatically worse.  I'll always work with anyone of either party on ways to grow this economy, create new jobs, and get our fiscal house in order for the long haul. But not under the shadow of these threats to our economy.  Pass a budget. End this government shutdown.  Pay our bills. Prevent an economic shutdown.  These Americans and millions of others are counting on Congress to do the right thing. And I will do everything I can to make sure they do. Thank you.
.  This Labor Day weekend, as we gather with family and friends, we'll also come together as a nation to honor some of our own - the working men and women of America who, across the generations, built this country up and helped make us who we are today.  On Monday, we'll celebrate that proud history.  We'll pay tribute to the values working Americans embody - hard work; responsibility; sacrifice; looking out for one another.  And we'll recommit ourselves to their cause; to securing for them a better bargain so that everyone who works hard in America has a chance to get ahead. See, over the past four and a half years, we've fought our way back from the worst recession of our lifetimes.  And thanks to the grit and resilience of the American people, we've begun to lay a foundation for stronger, more durable economic growth.  But as any working family will tell you, we're not where we need to be.    For over a decade, working Americans have seen their wages and incomes stagnate, even as corporate profits soar and the pay of a fortunate few explodes.  For even longer than that, inequality has steadily risen; the journey of upward mobility has become harder.  And in too many communities across this country, the shadow of poverty continues to cast a pall over our fellow citizens. Reversing that trend needs to be Washington's highest priority.  It's certainly mine.  That's why, over the past month, I've traveled all across America, laying out my ideas for how we can build on the cornerstones of what it means to be middle class.  A good job that pays a good wage.  A good education.  A home of your own.  Health care when you get sick.  A secure retirement even if you're not rich.  And more chances for folks to earn their way into the middle class as long as they're willing to work for it.    The truth is, it's not going to be easy to reverse the forces that have conspired - for decades - against working Americans.  But if we take a few bold steps - and if Washington is able to come together with common purpose and common resolve - we'll get there.  Our economy will keep getting stronger and more Americans will be able to join the ranks of the middle-class.  So this Labor Day, while you're out there grilling in the backyard, or taking that final trip for the summer, I hope you'll also take a moment to reflect on the many contributions of our working men and women.  For generations, it was the great American middle class that made our economy the envy of the world.  And as long as I'm President, I'm going to keep fighting to make sure that happens again. Thanks, and have a great weekend.
.  Over the past month, I've been visiting towns across America, talking about what our country needs to do to secure a better bargain for the middle class.  This week, I met with high school and college students in New York and Pennsylvania to discuss the surest path to the middle class - some form of higher education. But at a moment when a higher education has never been more important, it's also never been more expensive.  That's why, over the past four years, we've helped make college more affordable for millions of students and families with grants and loans that go farther from before. But students and families and taxpayers cannot just keep subsidizing college costs that keep going up and up.  Not when the average student now graduates more than $26,000 in debt. We cannot price the middle class out of a college education.  That's why I proposed major new reforms to make college more affordable and make it easier for folks to pay for their education.  First, we're going to start rating colleges based on opportunity - are they helping students from all kinds of backgrounds succeed, and on outcomes - their value to students and parents.  In time, we'll use those ratings to make sure that the colleges that keep their tuition down are the ones that will see their taxpayer funding go up.  Second, we're going to jumpstart competition between colleges over innovations that help more students graduate in less time, at less cost, while maintaining quality.  A number of schools are already testing new approaches, like putting more courses online or basing course credit on competence, not just hours spent in the classroom. And third, we're going to help more students responsibly manage their debt, by making more of them eligible for a loan repayment program called Pay-As-You-Earn, which caps your loan payments at 10 percent of what you make.  And we'll reach out directly to students to make sure they know that this program exists. These reforms won't be popular with everybody.  But the path we're on now is unsustainable for our students and our economy. Higher education shouldn't be a luxury, or a roll of the dice; it's an economic imperative that every family in America should be able to afford.  Thanks, and have a great weekend.
- including hundreds of children - were murdered in the worst chemical weapons attack of the 21st century.  And the United States has presented a powerful case to the world that the Syrian government was responsible for this horrific attack on its own people. This was not only a direct attack on human dignity; it is a serious threat to our national security.  There's a reason governments representing 98 percent of the world's people have agreed to ban the use of chemical weapons.  Not only because they cause death and destruction in the most indiscriminate and inhumane way possible - but because they can also fall into the hands of terrorist groups who wish to do us harm. That's why, last weekend, I announced that, as Commander in Chief, I decided that the United States should take military action against the Syrian regime.  This is not a decision I made lightly.  Deciding to use military force is the most solemn decision we can make as a nation. As the leader of the world's oldest Constitutional democracy, I also know that our country will be stronger if we act together, and our actions will be more effective.  That's why I asked Members of Congress to debate this issue and vote on authorizing the use of force. What we're talking about is not an open-ended intervention.  This would not be another Iraq or Afghanistan.  There would be no American boots on the ground.  Any action we take would be limited, both in time and scope - designed to deter the Syrian government from gassing its own people again and degrade its ability to do so. I know that the American people are weary after a decade of war, even as the war in Iraq has ended, and the war in Afghanistan is winding down.  That's why we're not putting our troops in the middle of somebody else's war. But we are the United States of America.  We cannot turn a blind eye to images like the ones we've seen out of Syria.  Failing to respond to this outrageous attack would increase the risk that chemical weapons could be used again; that they would fall into the hands of terrorists who might use them against us, and it would send a horrible signal to other nations that there would be no consequences for their use of these weapons.  All of which would pose a serious threat to our national security.  That's why we can't ignore chemical weapons attacks like this one - even if they happen halfway around the world.  And that's why I call on Members of Congress, from both parties, to come together and stand up for the kind of world we want to live in; the kind of world we want to leave our children and future generations.   Thank you.
. Over the past few days, I've met with Republicans and Democrats from both houses of Congress in an effort to reopen your government and remove the dangers of default from our economy. It's a positive development that House Republicans have agreed on the need to avoid the economic consequences of not meeting our country's commitments. Because once the debt ceiling is raised, and the shutdown is over, there's a lot we can accomplish together. We've created seven and a half million new jobs in the past three and a half years. Now let's create more. We've cut our deficits in half over the past four years. Now let's do it in a smarter, balanced way that lets us afford to invest in the things we need to grow. The truth is, there's a lot we can agree on. But one thing we have to agree on is that there is no good reason anyone should keep suffering through this shutdown. I met with some really innovative small business owners on Friday who've already lost contracts, lost customers, and put hiring on hold - because the pain of this Republican shutdown has trickled down to their bottom lines. It's hurting the very citizens that our government exists to serve. That's why a growing number of reasonable Republicans say it should end now. And it wouldn't be wise, as some suggest, to just kick the debt ceiling can down the road for a couple months, and flirt with a first-ever intentional default right in the middle of the holiday shopping season. Because damage to America's sterling credit rating wouldn't just cause global markets to go haywire; it would become more expensive for everyone in America to borrow money. Students paying for college. Newlyweds buying a home. It would amount to a new tax - a Republican default tax - on every family and business in America. It doesn't have to be this way. It's not supposed to be this way. Manufacturing crises to extract massive concessions isn't how our democracy works, and we have to stop it. Politics is a battle of ideas, but you advance those ideas through elections and legislation - not extortion. I know you're frustrated by what you see in your nation's capital right now. But because it's easy to get lost in or give up on the political back-and-forth, I want you to remember: this is not normal. Our government is closed for the first time in 17 years. A political party is risking default for the first time since the 1700s. This is not normal. That's why we have to put a stop to it. Not only because it's dangerous, but because it saps everyone's faith in our extraordinary system of self-government. And that hurts us all. Whether it's the work of creating jobs, growing the economy, or getting our fiscal house in order for the long haul, we've got a lot of work to do - and constant brinksmanship doesn't let us do it. It inflicts real pain on real people. It creates spasms of uncertainty for business owners. It threatens our nation's credit and standing in the world. And the longer it goes on - the more frequently this brinksmanship is inflicted - the more we'll see markets react, businesses put off plans to spend and hire, and unemployment claims tick up. The hundreds of thousands of hardworking civil servants who go even longer without pay will worry that they won't be able to cover their bills, and that their own creditworthiness will be ruined for no good reason at all. And I want to thank all the neighbors and local business owners who've shown acts of kindness to these Americans who serve their country. I ask that same spirit of citizenship from lenders who do business with these folks. Because they're being punished enough through no fault of their own. So let's pass a budget, put people back to work, and end this Republican shutdown. Let's pay our bills, and prevent an economic shutdown. Then let's get back to the work of the American people. Because there is so much else we should be focusing our energies on right now. We've got to create more jobs, and kids to educate, and an immigration system to fix. We've got more troops to bring home, and a middle class to rebuild, and opportunity to restore. There's so much America has going for it in this new century. And as always, this country works better when we work together. Thank you, and have a great weekend.
. This week, because Democrats and responsible Republicans came together, the government was reopened, and the threat of default was removed from our economy. There's been a lot of discussion lately of the politics of this shutdown. But the truth is, there were no winners in this. At a time when our economy needs more growth and more jobs, the manufactured crises of these last few weeks actually harmed jobs and growth. And it's understandable that your frustration with what goes on in Washington has never been higher. The way business is done in Washington has to change. Now that these clouds of crisis and uncertainty have lifted, we need to focus on what the majority of Americans sent us here to do - grow the economy, create good jobs, strengthen the middle class, lay the foundation for broad-based prosperity, and get our fiscal house in order for the long haul. It won't be easy. But we can make progress. Specifically, there are three places where I believe that Democrats and Republicans can work together right away. First, we should sit down and pursue a balanced approach to a responsible budget, one that grows our economy faster and shrinks our long-term deficits further. There is no choice between growth and fiscal responsibility - we need both. So we're making a serious mistake if a budget doesn't focus on what you're focused on: creating more good jobs that pay better wages. If we're going to free up resources for the things that help us grow - education, infrastructure, research - we should cut what we don't need, and close corporate tax loopholes that don't help create jobs. This shouldn't be as difficult as it has been in past years. Remember, our deficits are shrinking - not growing. Second, we should finish the job of fixing our broken immigration system. There's already a broad coalition across America that's behind this effort, from business leaders to faith leaders to law enforcement. It would grow our economy. It would secure our borders. The Senate has already passed a bill with strong bipartisan support. Now the House should, too. The majority of Americans thinks this is the right thing to do. It can and should get done by the end of this year. Third, we should pass a farm bill - one that America's farmers and ranchers can depend on, one that protects vulnerable children and adults in times of need, and one that gives rural communities opportunities to grow and the longer-term certainty they deserve. We won't suddenly agree on everything now that the cloud of crisis has passed. But we shouldn't hold back on places where we do agree, just because we don't think it's good politics, or just because the extremes in our parties don't like compromise. I'll look for willing partners from either party to get important work done. There's no good reason why we can't govern responsibly, without lurching from manufactured crisis to manufactured crisis. Because that isn't governing - it's just hurting the people we were sent here to serve. Those of us who have the privilege to serve this country have an obligation to do our job the best we can. We come from different parties, but we're Americans first. And our obligations to you must compel all of us, Democrats and Republicans, to cooperate, and compromise, and act in the best interests of this country we love. Thanks everybody, and have a great weekend.
. A few weeks ago, we launched an important new part of the Affordable Care Act.   It's called the Marketplace.  And for Americans without health insurance, and Americans who buy insurance on their own because they can't get it at work, it's a very big deal.   If you're one of those people, the Affordable Care Act makes you part of a big group plan for the first time.  The Marketplace is where you can apply and shop for affordable new health insurance choices.  It gathers insurers under one system to compete for your business.  And that choice and competition have actually helped bring prices down. Ultimately, the easiest way to buy insurance in this Marketplace will be a new website, HealthCare.gov.  But as you may have heard, the site isn't working the way it's supposed to yet.  That's frustrating for all of us who have worked so hard to make sure everyone who needs it gets health care.  And it's especially frustrating for the Americans who've been trying to get covered.  The site has been visited more than 20 million times so far.  Nearly 700,000 people have applied for coverage already.  That proves just how much demand there is for these new quality, affordable health care choices.  And that's why, in the coming weeks, we are going to get it working as smoothly as it's supposed to.  We've got people working overtime, 24/7, to boost capacity and address these problems, every single day. But even as we improve the website, remember that the website isn't the only way to apply for coverage under these new plans.  We've updated HealthCare.gov to offer more information about enrolling over the phone, by mail, or in person with a specially-trained navigator who can help answer your questions.  Just call 1-800-318-2596 or visit LocalHelp.HealthCare.gov.  Don't worry - these plans will not sell out.  We're only a few weeks into a six-month open enrollment period, and everyone who wants insurance through the Marketplace will get it. Some people have poked fun at me this week for sounding like an insurance salesman.  And that's okay.  I'd still be out there championing this law even if the website were perfect.  I'll never stop fighting to help more hardworking Americans know the economic security of health care.  That's something we should all want. That's why it's also interesting to see Republicans in Congress expressing so much concern that people are having trouble buying health insurance through the new website - especially considering they've spent the last few years so obsessed with denying those same people access to health insurance that they just shut down the government and threatened default over it.  As I've said many times before, I'm willing to work with anyone, on any idea, who's actually willing to make this law perform better.  But it's well past the time for folks to stop rooting for its failure.  Because hardworking, middle-class families are rooting for its success. The Affordable Care Act gives people who've been stuck with sky-high premiums because of preexisting conditions the chance to get affordable insurance for the first time.   This law means that women can finally buy coverage that doesn't charge them higher premiums than men for the same care.   And everyone who already has health insurance, whether through your employer, Medicare, or Medicaid, will keep the benefits and protections this law has already put in place.  Three million more young adults have health insurance on their parents' plans because of the Affordable Care Act.  More than six million people on Medicare have saved an average of $1,000 on their prescription medicine because of the Affordable Care Act.  Last year, more than 8 million Americans received half a billion dollars in refunds from their insurers because of the Affordable Care Act.  And for tens of millions of women, preventive care like mammograms and birth control are free because of the Affordable Care Act.   That's all part of this law, and it's here to stay. We did not fight so hard for this reform for so many years just to build a website.  We did it to free millions of American families from the awful fear that one illness or injury - to yourself or your child - might cost you everything you'd worked so hard to build.  We did it to cement the principle that in this country, the security of health care is not a privilege for a fortunate few, but a right for every one of us to enjoy.  We have already delivered on part of that promise, and we will not rest until the work is done. Thank you, and have a great weekend.
.  On Thursday, I addressed a conference for business leaders from around the world.  And my pitch was simple:  Choose America.  Invest in America.  Create jobs in America. It speaks to my top priority as President: growing our economy, creating good jobs, strengthening security and opportunity for the middle class.  Over the past three and a half years, our businesses have created over seven and a half million new jobs.  And this week, the Treasury confirmed that since I took office, we've cut our deficits by more than half. But we have more work to do.  We need to grow and create more good jobs faster.  That's my driving focus.  And I'll go anywhere and do anything to make it happen.  That has to be Washington's driving focus as well.  But I know that what you often hear out of Washington can sound like Charlie Brown's teacher - a jumble of unfocused noise that's out of touch with the things you care about. So today, I want to cut through that noise and talk plainly about what we should do right now to keep growing this economy and creating new jobs. It begins by ending what has done more than anything else to undermine our economy over the past few years - and that's the constant cycle of manufactured crises and self-inflicted wounds.  I was glad to hear the Republican leader in the Senate say this week that they won't pursue another government shutdown or threaten another default on our debt.  Because we shouldn't be injuring ourselves every few months - we should be investing in ourselves.  And one way to do that is through the budget that Congress started working on this week.  Now, budgets can be a boring topic - especially on the weekend.  But they can also be revealing.  Because they expose what our priorities are as a country for all to see.  Think about it.  We can keep wasteful corporate tax giveaways that working folks don't get - or we could close those loopholes and use that money to pay for things that actually create jobs. We can keep harmful cuts to education programs - or we could give more kids a head start, hire more teachers in math and science, and help more kids afford a college education. We can keep doling out corporate welfare to big oil companies - or we could keep investing in the renewable energy that creates jobs and lowers our carbon pollution. Priorities. Choices.  That's what this is about.  And the stakes for the middle class couldn't be higher.  If we don't pick the right priorities now, make the right choices now, we could hinder growth and opportunity for decades, and leave our children with something less. That includes the obsession with cutting just for the sake of cutting.  That hasn't helped our economy grow; it's held it back.  Remember, our deficits are getting smaller - not bigger.  On my watch, they're falling at the fastest pace in 60 years.  So that gives us room to fix our long-term debt problems without sticking it to young people, or undermining our bedrock retirement and health security programs, or ending basic research that helps the economy grow. Here's the bottom line.  Congress should pass a budget that cuts things we don't need, and closes wasteful tax loopholes that don't help create jobs, so that we can free up resources for the things that actually do create jobs and growth. Building new roads, and bridges, and schools, and airports - that creates jobs. Educating our kids and our workers for a global economy - that helps us grow. Investing in science, technology, and research - that keeps our businesses and our military on the cutting edge.  It's vital for our economic future. So the question isn't between growth and fiscal responsibility.  We need both.  The question can't be how much more we can cut; it's got to be how many more jobs we can create, how many more kids we can educate, and how much more shared prosperity we can generate.  Because in America, our economy doesn't grow from the top-down.  It grows from the middle-class out.  And as long as I am President, our national mission will remain building an America where everyone belongs, and everyone who works hard has a chance to get ahead. Thanks, and have a great weekend.
.  Veterans' Day Weekend is a chance for all of us to say two simple words: "Thank you."  Thank you to that greatest generation who fought island by island across the Pacific, and freed millions from fascism in Europe.  Thank you to the heroes who risked everything through the bitter cold of Korea and the stifling heat of Vietnam.  And thank you to all the heroes who have served since, most recently our 9/11 Generation of veterans from Iraq and Afghanistan.  Now that more of them are coming home, we need to serve them as well as they served us.  That requires more than a simple "thank you" - especially from those of us who've been elected to serve. I've often said that my top priority is growing the economy, creating new jobs, and restoring middle-class security.  And a very important part of that is making sure that every veteran has every chance to share in the opportunity he or she has helped defend.  In addition to the care and benefits they've earned - including good mental health care to stay strong - that means a good job, a good education, and a home to call their own. If you fight for your country overseas, you should never have to fight for a job when you come home.  I've made sure the federal government leads by example, and since I took office, we've hired about 300,000 veterans to keep serving their country.  Our new transition assistance program is helping veterans and their spouses find that new job and plan their career.  And I'm going to keep calling on Congress to do the right thing and pass the Veterans Jobs Corps.  Put our veterans to work rebuilding America. Our troops gain unmatched skills while serving in harm's way.  So we're also doing everything we can to connect more businesses with highly-skilled veterans.  More help with job searches.  More tools to connect veterans to job openings.  More chances to earn licenses and credentials for civilian jobs.  And new tax credits for companies that hire veterans and wounded warriors - tax credits which Congress should make permanent.  And America's businesses have worked with Michelle and Jill Biden's Joining Forces campaign to help returning heroes find jobs in the private sector.  They've already hired or trained 290,000 veterans and military spouses, and they've committed to hiring over 400,000 more. We're also committed to giving today's veterans and their families the same shot at a great education this country gave my grandfather when he came home from World War II.  We're helping more of them earn their degrees under the Post-9/11 GI Bill.  We've worked with thousands of schools across the country to set new standards to protect against dishonest recruiting and predatory lending practices that target our veterans.  And we're helping hundreds of community colleges and universities do more to welcome and encourage our veterans on campus. Thanks to these efforts, and the efforts of the private sector, we've made progress getting our vets back to work.  But we've got a lot more to do.  And as more than a million of our troops return to civilian life, we're going to have to work even harder.  Because the skill, dedication, and courage of our troops is unmatched - and when they come home, we all benefit from their efforts to build a stronger America and a brighter future for our kids. So to all our veterans, on behalf our entire nation, thank you for everything you've done and will continue to do for our country.  As your Commander-in-Chief, I'm proud of your service, and grateful for your sacrifice.  And as long as I'm your President, I will make it my mission to make sure that America has your back, not just on one day or one weekend, but 365 days a year.  Thanks.  God bless you, and have a great weekend.
.  On Thursday, I visited a steel plant in Cleveland, Ohio to talk about what we're doing to rebuild our economy on a new foundation for stronger, more durable economic growth.  One area where we've made great progress is American energy.  After years of talk about reducing our dependence on foreign oil, we are actually poised to control our own energy future.  Shortly after I took office, we invested in new American technologies to reverse our dependence on foreign oil and double our wind and solar power.  And today, we generate more renewable energy than ever - with tens of thousands of good, American jobs to show for it.  We produce more natural gas than anyone - and nearly everyone's energy bill is lower because of it.  And just this week, we learned that for the first time in nearly two decades, the United States of America now produces more of our own oil here at home than we buy from other countries.  That's a big deal.  That's a tremendous step towards American energy independence.  But this is important, too: we reached this milestone in part not only because we're producing more energy, but because we're wasting less energy.  We set new fuel standards for our cars and trucks so that they'll go twice as far on a gallon of gas by the middle of the next decade.  That's going to save an average driver more than $8,000 at the pump over the life of a new car.  We also launched initiatives to put people to work upgrading our homes, businesses, and factories so that they waste less energy.  That's going to save our businesses money on their energy bills - that's money they can use to hire more workers. Here's another thing.  Between more clean energy, and less wasted energy, our emissions of dangerous carbon pollution are actually falling.  That's good news for anyone who cares about the world we leave to our kids.  And while our carbon emissions have been dropping, our economy has been growing.  Our businesses have created 7.8 million new jobs in the past 44 months.  It proves that the old argument that we can't strengthen the economy and be good stewards of our planet at the same time is a false choice.  We can do both.  And we have to do both. More good jobs.  Cheaper and cleaner sources of energy.  A secure energy future.  Thanks to the grit and resilience of American businesses and the American people, that's where we're heading.  And as long as I'm President, that's where we're going to keep heading - to leave our children a stronger economy, and a safer planet.  Thanks, and have a great weekend.
.  Over the past couple months, most of the political headlines you've read have probably been about the government shutdown and the launch of the Affordable Care Act.  And I know that many of you have rightly never been more frustrated with Washington. But if you look beyond those headlines, there are some good things happening in our economy.  And that's been my top priority since the day I walked into the Oval Office. After decades in which the middle class was working harder and harder just to keep up, and a punishing recession that made it worse, we made the tough choices required not just to recover from crisis, but to rebuild on a new foundation for stronger, more durable economic growth. Five years later, we have fought our way back.  Our businesses have created 7.8 million new jobs in the past 44 months.  Another 200,000 Americans went back to work last month. The American auto industry has come roaring back with more than 350,000 new jobs - jobs churning out and selling the high-tech, fuel-efficient cars the world wants to buy.  And they're leading the charge in a manufacturing sector that has added jobs for the first time since the 1990s - a big reason why our businesses sell more goods and services "Made in America" than ever before. We decided to reverse our addiction to foreign oil.  And today, we generate more renewable energy than ever, more natural gas than anybody, and for the first time in nearly 20 years, America now produces more oil than we buy from other countries. We decided to fix a broken health care system.  And even though the rollout of the marketplace where you can buy affordable plans has been rough, so far, about 500,000 Americans are poised to gain health coverage starting January 1st.  And by the way, health care costs are growing at the slowest rate in 50 years. And one more thing: since I took office, we've cut our deficits by more than half.  And that makes it easier to invest in the things that create jobs - education, research, and infrastructure. Imagine how much farther along we could be if both parties were working together.  Think about what we could do if a reckless few didn't hold the economy hostage every few months, or waste time on dozens of votes to repeal the Affordable Care Act rather than try to help us fix it.  In the weeks ahead, I'll keep talking about my plan to build a better bargain for the middle class.  Good jobs.  A good education.  A chance to buy a home, save, and retire.  And yes, the financial security of affordable health care.  And I'll look for any willing partners who want to help. Because of your hard work and tough sacrifices over the past five years, we're pointed in the right direction.  But we've got more work to do to keep moving that way.  And as long as I'm President, I'll keep doing everything I can to create jobs, grow the economy, and make sure that everyone who works hard has a chance to get ahead.  Thanks, and have a great weekend.
-- Thanksgiving  Thursday, November 28, 2013 Hi, everybody.  On behalf of all the Obamas - Michelle, Malia, Sasha, Bo, and the newest member of our family, Sunny - I want to wish you a happy and healthy Thanksgiving.  We'll be spending today just like many of you - sitting down with family and friends to eat some good food, tell stories, watch a little football, and most importantly, count our blessings.  And as Americans, we have so much to be thankful for.  We give thanks for the men and women who set sail for this land nearly four centuries ago, risking everything for the chance at a better life - and the people who were already here, our Native American brothers and sisters, for their generosity during that first Thanksgiving.  We give thanks for the generations who followed - people of all races and religions, who arrived here from every country on Earth and worked to build something better for themselves and for us.  We give thanks for all our men and women in uniform - and for their families, who are surely missing them very much today.  We're grateful for their sacrifice too.  We give thanks for the freedoms they defend - the freedom to think what we want and say what we think, to worship according to our own beliefs, to choose our leaders and, yes, criticize them without punishment.  People around the world are fighting and even dying for their chance at these freedoms.  We stand with them in that struggle, and we give thanks for being free.  And we give thanks to everyone who's doing their part to make the United States a better, more compassionate nation - who spend their Thanksgiving volunteering at a soup kitchen, or joining a service project, or bringing food and cheer to a lonely neighbor.  That big-hearted generosity is a central part of our American character.  We believe in lending a hand to folks who need it.  We believe in pitching in to solve problems even if they aren't our problems.  And that's not a one-day-a-year belief.  It's part of the fabric of our nation.  And we remember that many Americans need that helping hand right now.  Americans who've lost their jobs and can't get a new one through no fault of their own.  Americans who've been trapped in poverty and just need that helping hand to climb out.  Citizens whose prayers and hopes move us to act. We are a people who are greater together than we are on our own.  That's what today is about.  That's what every day should be about.  No matter our differences, we're all part of one American family.  We are each other's keeper.  We are one nation, under God.  That core tenet of our American experience has guided us from the earliest days of our founding - and it will guide us to a future that's even brighter than today.  Thank you, God bless you, and from my family to yours, Happy Thanksgiving.
.  The holiday season is a time for remembering the bonds we share, and our obligations to one another as human beings. But right now, more than one million of our fellow Americans are poised to lose a vital economic lifeline just a few days after Christmas if Congress doesn't do something about it. Our top priority as a country should be restoring opportunity and broad-based economic growth for all Americans.  And yesterday, we learned that our businesses created about 200,000 jobs in the month of November.  That's more than 8 million new jobs in the last 45 months.  And the unemployment rate fell to its lowest level in five years. But we need to do everything we can to help businesses create more good jobs that pay good wages even faster.  Because the hole that we're still digging out of means that there are still millions of Americans looking for work - often because they've been laid off through no fault of their own.  We also have to look out for the Americans working hard to get those jobs.  That's why, as a country, we offer temporary unemployment insurance - so that job-seekers don't fall into poverty, and so that when they get that job, they bounce back more quickly.  For many families, it can be the difference between hardship and catastrophe.  It makes a difference for a mother who suddenly doesn't know if she'll be able to put food on the table for her kids.  It makes a difference for a father who lost his job and is looking for a new one.  Last year alone, it lifted 2.5 million people out of poverty, and cushioned the blow for many more. But here's the thing: if Members of Congress don't act before they leave on their vacations, 1.3 million Americans will lose this lifeline.  These are people we know.  They're our friends and neighbors; they sit next to us in church and volunteer in our communities; their kids play with our kids.  And they include 20,000 veterans who've served this country with honor.  If Congress refuses to act, it won't just hurt families already struggling - it will actually harm our economy.  Unemployment insurance is one of the most effective ways there is to boost our economy.  When people have money to spend on basic necessities, that means more customers for our businesses and, ultimately, more jobs.  And the evidence shows that unemployment insurance doesn't stop people from trying hard to find work. Just this week, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office predicted that allowing benefits to expire will be a drag on our economic growth next year.  A report by the Department of Labor and my Council of Economic Advisors estimated that it could cost businesses 240,000 jobs.  And without the ability to feed their families or pay the bills, many people currently looking for work could stop looking for good. So extending unemployment insurance isn't just the right thing to do for our families - it's the smart thing to do for our economy.  And it shouldn't be a partisan issue.  For decades, Congress has voted to offer relief to job-seekers - including when the unemployment rate was lower than it is today.  But now that economic lifeline is in jeopardy.  All because Republicans in this Congress - which is on track to be the most unproductive in history - have so far refused to extend it. So this holiday season, let's give our fellow Americans who are desperately looking for work the help they need to keep on looking.  Let's make it easier for businesses to attract more customers, and our economy to grow.  And together, let's keep doing everything we can to make this country a place where anyone who works hard has a chance to get ahead Thanks, and have a great weekend.
. Six dedicated school workers and 20 beautiful children were taken from our lives forever. As parents, as Americans, the news filled us with grief.  Newtown is a town like so many of our hometowns.  The victims were educators and kids that could have been any of our own.  And our hearts were broken for the families that lost a piece of their heart; for the communities changed forever; for the survivors, so young, whose innocence was torn away far too soon.  But beneath the sadness, we also felt a sense of resolve - that these tragedies must end, and that to end them, we must change. From the very beginning, our efforts were led by the parents of Newtown - men and women, impossibly brave, who stepped forward in the hopes that they might spare others their heartbreak.  And they were joined by millions of Americans - mothers and fathers; sisters and brothers - who refused to accept these acts of violence as somehow inevitable. Over the past year, their voices have sustained us.  And their example has inspired us - to be better parents and better neighbors; to give our children everything they need to face the world without fear; to meet our responsibilities not just to our own families, but to our communities.  More than the tragedy itself, that's how Newtown will be remembered.  And on this anniversary of a day we will never forget, that's the example we should continue to follow.  Because we haven't yet done enough to make our communities and our country safer.  We have to do more to keep dangerous people from getting their hands on a gun so easily.  We have to do more to heal troubled minds.  We have to do everything we can to protect our children from harm and make them feel loved, and valued, and cared for. And as we do, we can't lose sight of the fact that real change won't come from Washington.  It will come the way it's always come - from you.  From the American people.  As a nation, we can't stop every act of violence.  We can't heal every troubled mind.  But if we want to live in a country where we can go to work, send our kids to school, and walk our streets free from fear, we have to keep trying.  We have to keep caring.  We have to treat every child like they're our child.  Like those in Sandy Hook, we must choose love.  And together, we must make a change.  Thank you.
.  This week, Congress finished up some important work before heading home for the holidays. For the first time in years, both parties came together in the spirit of compromise to pass a budget - one that helps chart our economic course for the next two years.  This budget will unwind some of the damaging cuts that have threatened students and seniors and held back our businesses.  It clears the path for critical investments in the things that grow our economy and strengthen our middle class, like education and research.  And it will keep reducing our deficits - at a time when we've seen four years of the fastest deficit reduction since the end of World War II.  Members of Congress also voted to finally allow several dedicated and well-qualified public servants to do their jobs for the American people - many of whom waited months for a simple yes-or-no vote.  These are judges, cabinet secretaries and military leaders.  They're men and women charged with growing our economy, keeping our homeland secure, and making sure our housing system and financial system work for ordinary Americans.  So after a year of showdowns and obstruction that only held back our economy, we've been able to break the logjam a bit over the last few weeks.  It's a hopeful sign that we can end the cycle of short-sighted, crisis-driven decision-making and actually work together to get things done.  And that's important.  Because there's plenty of work to do. Right now, because Congress failed to act before leaving on vacation, more than one million Americans are poised to lose a vital source of income just a few days after Christmas.  For many people who are still looking for work, unemployment insurance is a lifeline that can make the difference between temporary hardship or lasting catastrophe.  Instead of punishing these families who can least afford it - especially now - Congress should first restore that lifeline immediately, then put their entire focus on creating more good jobs that pay good wages.  That's what I'll be focused on next year, and every day I have the privilege of being your President.  Growing the economy.  Expanding opportunity.  Building an America that offers everyone who works hard the chance to get ahead, and every child a fair shot at success.  And if Congress continues to act in the spirit of cooperation we've seen in recent weeks, I'm confident we can make much more progress together in the year to come. Thank you.  Have a great weekend and a very Merry Christmas.
.  This is a time when we look ahead to all the possibilities and opportunities of the year to come - when we resolve to better ourselves, and to better our relationships with one another.  And today, I want to talk about one place that Washington should start - a place where we can make a real and powerful difference in the lives of many of our fellow Americans right now. Just a few days after Christmas, more than one million of our fellow Americans lost a vital economic lifeline - the temporary insurance that helps folks make ends meet while they look for a job.  Republicans in Congress went home for the holidays and let that lifeline expire.  And for many of their constituents who are unemployed through no fault of their own, that decision will leave them with no income at all.  We make this promise to one another because it makes a difference to a mother who needs help feeding her kids while she's looking for work; to a father who needs help paying the rent while learning the skills to get a new and better job.  And denying families that security is just plain cruel.  We're a better country than that.  We don't abandon our fellow Americans when times get tough - we keep the faith with them until they start that new job. What's more, it actually slows down the economy for all of us.  If folks can't pay their bills or buy the basics, like food and clothes, local businesses take a hit and hire fewer workers.  That's why the independent Congressional Budget Office says that unless Congress restores this insurance, we'll feel a drag on our economic growth this year.  And after our businesses created more than two million new jobs last year, that's a self-inflicted wound we don't need. So when Congress comes back to work this week, their first order of business should be making this right.  Right now, a bipartisan group in Congress is working on a three-month extension of unemployment insurance - and if they pass it, I will sign it.  For decades, Republicans and Democrats put partisanship and ideology aside to offer some security for job-seekers, even when the unemployment rate was lower than it is today.  Instead of punishing families who can least afford it, Republicans should make it their New Year's resolution to do the right thing, and restore this vital economic security for their constituents right now. After all, our focus as a country this year shouldn't be shrinking our economy, but growing it; not narrowing opportunity, but expanding it; not fewer jobs, but doing everything we can to help our businesses create more of the good jobs that a growing middle class requires.  That's my New Year's resolution - to do everything I can, every single day, to help make 2014 a year in which more of our citizens can earn their own piece of the American Dream.  After five years of working and sacrificing to recover and rebuild from crisis, we have it within our power, right now, to move this country forward.  It's entirely up to us.  And I'm optimistic for the year that lies ahead.  Thank you, and have a great weekend.
.  This week, I delivered my State of the Union Address. Today, here's the three-minute version. After four years of economic growth with eight million new private sector jobs, our unemployment rate is the lowest it's been in more than five years.  And with the economy speeding up, companies say they intend to hire more people this year.  But while those at the top are doing better than ever, average wages have barely budged.  Inequality has deepened.  Too many Americans are working harder and harder just to get by.  And too many still aren't working at all. Our job is to reverse those trends.  It's time to restore opportunity for all people - the idea that no matter who you are, if you work hard and live up to your responsibilities, you can make it if you try. The opportunity agenda I laid out on Tuesday has four parts. This week, I took them on the road. Job one is more new jobs: jobs in construction and manufacturing, jobs in innovation and energy. In Wisconsin, I talked with plant workers at GE about part two: training more Americans with the skills to fill those new jobs. In Tennessee, I talked with students about part three: guaranteeing every child access to a world-class education, from early childhood, through college, and right into a career. And with steelworkers in Pittsburgh, and retail workers in Maryland, I laid out part four: making sure hard work pays off for men and women, with wages you can live on, savings you can retire on, and health insurance that's there for you when you need it. These ideas will strengthen the middle class and help more people work their way into the middle class.  Some of them will require Congress.  But wherever I can take steps to expand opportunity for more families on my own, I will.  I'm going to ask business leaders, education leaders, and philanthropic leaders to partner with us to advance these goals.  And every single day, I'm going to fight for these priorities - to shift the odds back in favor of more working and middle-class Americans, and to keep America a place where you can always make it if you try. Thanks.  Have a great weekend.  And enjoy the Super Bowl.
. In this year of action, I said I'd do everything in my power to expand opportunity for more Americans.  And this week, I took action to lift more workers' wages by requiring federal contractors to pay their employees a fair wage of at least $10.10 an hour.  These are workers who serve our troops' meals, wash their dishes, care for our veterans - Americans who work hard and will get a raise as these contracts come up.  This will be good for contractors, for taxpayers, and for America's bottom line. We know why this is important.  Our economy has been growing for four years.  Our businesses have created eight and a half million new jobs.  But while those at the top are doing better than ever, average wages have barely budged.  Too many Americans are working harder than ever just to get by, let alone get ahead.  And that's been true since long before the recession hit.  That's why we've got to build an economy that works for everybody, not just a fortunate few.  We've got to restore opportunity for all - the notion that no matter who you are or how you started out, with hard work and responsibility, you can get ahead in America.  The opportunity agenda I've laid out is built on more new jobs that pay good wages; better training for folks to fill those jobs; a smarter education for our kids; and making sure honest work is rewarded.  And the action I took this week will reward hard work for more Americans.  But to finish the job, Congress needs to act.  In the year since I first asked Congress to raise the minimum wage, six states have passed laws to raise theirs.  More states, cities, counties, and companies are taking steps to join them.  An overwhelming majority of Americans support raising a minimum wage that's worth about 20% less than when Ronald Reagan took office. Right now, there's a bill in Congress that would boost America's minimum wage to $10.10 an hour.  That's easy to remember: ten-ten.  And remember, the average worker who would get a raise if Congress acts is about 35 years old.  Most lower-wage jobs are held by women.  And raising the minimum wage wouldn't just raise their wages - its effect would lift wages for about 28 million Americans.  It would lift millions of Americans out of poverty, and help millions more work their way out of poverty - without requiring a single dollar in new taxes or spending.  It will give more businesses more customers with more money to spend - and that means growing the economy for everyone.  You deserve to know where the people who represent you stand on this.  If they don't support raising the federal minimum wage to ten-ten an hour, ask them "why not?"  The opponents of raising folks' wages have deployed the same old arguments for years, and time and again, they've been proven wrong.  Let's prove them wrong again, and give America a raise.  Let's make opportunity easier to come by for every American who's willing to work for it.  Thanks, and have a great weekend.
.  This week, I visited a company in Raleigh, North Carolina that helps make electric motors that save businesses money on energy costs and cut harmful carbon pollution.  And I stopped by N.C. State University, where engineers are set to develop the new technology that will make those motors even better. It's part of my push not only to make America home to more high-tech manufacturing - but to make America more attractive for the good jobs that a growing middle class requires.  And increasingly, we are.  Thanks in part to our all-of-the-above strategy for American energy, for the first time in nearly two decades, we produce more oil here at home than we buy from the rest of the world.  We generate more renewable energy than ever, and more natural gas than anybody.  Health care costs are growing at their slowest rate in 50 years - due in part to the Affordable Care Act.  And since I took office, we've cut our deficits by more than half. So we are primed to bring back more of the good jobs claimed by the recession, and lost to overseas competition in recent decades.  But that requires a year of action.  And I want to work with Congress this year on proven ways to create jobs, like building infrastructure and fixing our broken immigration system. Where Congress isn't acting, I'll act on my own to put opportunity within reach for anyone who's willing to work for it. That's what I did in Raleigh by launching America's second "manufacturing innovation institute."  It's a partnership between companies, colleges, and the federal government focused on making sure American businesses and American workers win the race for high-tech manufacturing and the jobs that come with it - jobs that can help people and communities willing to work hard punch their ticket into the middle class.  I firmly believe that this can be a breakthrough year for America.  But to make that happen, we're gonna have to act - to create good jobs that pay good wages, and to offer more Americans a fair shot to get ahead.  That's what I'm focused on every day that I have the privilege of serving as your president. That's what I'm going to be focused on every single day of this year. Thanks, and have a great weekend.
:  Hello everybody, and happy holidays. THE FIRST LADY :  We know how busy this time of year is for everyone, so we're not going to take much of your time.  But we did want to take a moment to wish you all a Merry Christmas, from our family to yours. THE PRESIDENT :   This is a season for millions of Americans to be together with family, to continue long-held holiday traditions, and to show our gratitude to those we love.  And along the way, some of us might even watch a little basketball or eat some Christmas cookies, too. THE FIRST LADY :  Here at the White House, over the past few weeks, we've had about 70,000 people from all across the country come visit us and look at our holiday decorations.  This year's theme was "Gather Around: Stories of the Season." And in every room of the house, we tried to tell a story about who we are as Americans and how we celebrate the holidays together.  And we made certain to highlight some of the most powerful stories we know - the stories of our outstanding troops, veterans, and military families and their service and sacrifice for our country. THE PRESIDENT :   Our extraordinary men and women in uniform are serving so that the rest of us can enjoy the blessings we cherish during the holidays.  But that means many of our troops are far from home and far from family.  They're spending some extra time on the phone with their loved ones back home. Or they're setting up video chats so they can watch as the presents are opened.  So today, we want all of our troops to know that you're in our thoughts and prayers this holiday season. And here's the good news: For many of our troops and newest veterans, this might be the first time in years that they've been with their families on Christmas.  In fact, with the Iraq war over and the transition in Afghanistan, fewer of our men and women in uniform are deployed in harm's way than at any time in the last decade. THE FIRST LADY: And that's something we all can be thankful for.  And with more and more of our troops back here at home, now it's our turn to serve - it's our turn to step up and show our gratitude for the military families who have given us so much.  And that's why Jill Biden and I started our Joining Forces initiative - to rally all Americans to support our military families in ways large and small.  And again and again, we have been overwhelmed by the response we've gotten as folks from across the country have found new ways to give back to these families through their schools, businesses, and houses of worship. THE PRESIDENT :   That's the same spirit of giving that connects all of us during the holidays.  So many people all across the country are helping out at soup kitchens, buying gifts for children in need, or organizing food or clothing drives for their neighbors.  For families like ours, that service is a chance to celebrate the birth of Christ and live out what He taught us - to love our neighbors as we would ourselves; to feed the hungry and look after the sick; to be our brother's keeper and our sister's keeper.  And for all of us as Americans, regardless of our faith, those are values that can drive us to be better parents and friends, better neighbors and better citizens. THE FIRST LADY :  So as we look to the New Year, let's pledge ourselves to living out those values by reaching out and lifting up those in our communities who could use a hand up.  THE PRESIDENT :   So Merry Christmas, everyone.  And from the two of us, as well as Malia, Sasha, Grandma, Bo... THE FIRST LADY :  And Sunny, the newest Obama. THE PRESIDENT :   We wish you   all a blessed and safe holiday season.  THE FIRST LADY :  Happy holidays everybody, and God bless.
.  This week, I called members of my Cabinet to the White House to deal with a challenge that affects so many families and communities - the crime, the outrage, of sexual violence. Sexual assault is an affront to our basic decency and humanity.  And it's about all of us - the safety of those we love most: our moms, our wives, our daughters and our sons.  Because when a child starts to question their self-worth after being abused, and maybe starts withdrawing... or a young woman drops out of school after being attacked... or a mother struggles to hold down a job and support her kids after an assault... it's not just these individuals and their families who suffer.  Our communities - our whole country - is held back. Over the past five years, we've stepped up our efforts stop these crimes.  And this week, we took another important step to protect young women at college.  An estimated 1 in 5 women is sexually assaulted at college - and that's totally unacceptable.  So I've created the White House Task Force to Protect Students from Sexual Assault.  We're going to help schools do a better job of preventing and responding to sexual assault on their campuses.  Because college should be a place where our young people feel secure and confident, so they can go as far as their talents will take them. And we're going to keep working to stop sexual assaults wherever they occur.  We'll keep strengthening our criminal justice system, so police and prosecutors have the tools and training to prevent these crimes and bring perpetrators to justice.  We'll keep reaching out to survivors, to make sure they're getting all the support they need to heal.  We're going to keep combating sexual assault in our armed forces, because when a member of our military is attacked by the very people he or she trusts and serves with, that's an injustice that no one who volunteers to protect our nation should ever endure.  Some of this is a job for government.  But really, it's up to all of us.  We've got to teach young people - men and women - to be brave enough to stand up and help put an end to these crimes.  We've especially got to teach young men to show women the respect they deserve.  I want every young man in America to know that real men don't hurt women.  And those of us who are fathers have a special obligation to make sure every young man out there understands that being a man means recognizing sexual violence and being outraged by it, and doing their part to stop it. Perhaps most important, we need to keep saying to anyone out there who has ever been assaulted:  you are not alone.  We have your back.  I've got your back.  I'm going to keep pushing for others to step up - across my administration, in Congress, in state capitals, college campuses and military bases all across our country.  This is a priority for me, not only as President and Commander-in-Chief, but as a husband and a father of two extraordinary girls.  And I hope it's a priority for you.  Because here in the United States of America, every man and woman, every girl and boy, has the right to be safe and protected and to pursue their own piece of the American dream. Let's all do our part to make it happen.  Thanks, and have a great weekend.
.  Restoring the idea of opportunity for all requires a year of action from all of us.  Wherever I can act on my own, I will - and whenever I can ask more Americans to help, I'll do that too. In my State of the Union Address, for example, I asked more business leaders to take action to raise their employees' wages.  Because even though our economy is growing, and our businesses have created about eight and a half million new jobs over the past four years, average wages have barely budged. So it's good news that, earlier this week, one of America's largest retailers, The Gap, decided to raise wages for its employees beginning this year.  Their decision will benefit about 65,000 workers in the U.S.  That means more families will be able to raise their kids, finish their studies, or keep up on their bills with a little less financial stress and strain.  Gap's CEO explained their decision simply - he said, "[It's] right for our brands, good for our people, and beneficial to our customers."  And he's right - raising Americans' wages isn't just a good deed; it's good business and good for our economy.  It helps reduce turnover, it boosts productivity, and it gives folks some more money to spend at local businesses. And as a chief executive myself, that's why I took action last week to lift more workers' wages by requiring federal contractors to pay their employees a fair wage of at least $10.10 an hour. In the year since I first asked Congress to raise the minimum wage, six states have passed laws to raise theirs, and more states are working on it as we speak.  But only Congress can finish the job and lift Americans' wages across the country.  Right now, there's a bill before Congress that would boost America's minimum wage to $10.10 an hour.  That's easy to remember - "ten-ten."  That bill would lift wages for more than 16 million Americans without requiring a single dollar in new taxes or spending.  But even though a majority of Democrats, Independents, and Republicans across the country support raising the minimum wage, Republicans in Congress don't want to give it a vote.  Hardworking Americans deserve better than "no."  Let's tell Congress to say "yes."  Pass that bill.  Give America a raise.  Because here in America, no one who works hard should have to live in poverty - and everyone who works hard should have a chance to get ahead.  Thanks, and have a great weekend.
.  In my State of the Union Address, I said that the best measure of opportunity is access to a good job.  And after the worst recession of our lifetimes, our businesses have created eight and a half million new jobs in the last four years. But we need to do more to make America a magnet for good jobs for the future.  And in this year of action, where Congress won't do that, I will do whatever I can to expand opportunity for more Americans.  This week, I took two actions to attract new jobs to America - jobs in American manufacturing, and jobs rebuilding America's infrastructure. Here's why this is important.  In the 2000s alone, we lost more than one-third of all American manufacturing jobs.  One in three.  And when the housing bubble burst, workers in the construction industry were hit harder than just about anybody.  The good news is, today, our manufacturers have added more than 620,000 jobs over the last four years - the first sustained growth in manufacturing jobs since the 1990s.  Still, the economy has changed.  If we want to attract more good manufacturing jobs to America, we've got to make sure we're on the cutting edge of new manufacturing technologies and techniques.  And in today's global economy, first-class jobs gravitate to first-class infrastructure. That's why, on Tuesday, I launched two new high-tech manufacturing hubs - places where businesses and universities will partner to turn groundbreaking research into real-world goods Made in America.  So far, we've launched four of these hubs, where our workers can master 3-D printing, energy-efficient electronics, lightweight metals, and digital manufacturing - all technologies that can help ensure a steady stream of good jobs well into the 21st century. Then on Wednesday, I launched a new competition to build 21st century infrastructure - roads and bridges, mass transit, more efficient ports, and faster passenger rail.  Rebuilding America won't just attract new businesses; it will create good construction jobs that can't be shipped overseas. Of course, Congress could make an even bigger difference in both areas.  Thanks to the leadership of a bipartisan group of lawmakers, there's a bill in Congress right now that would create an entire network of high-tech manufacturing hubs all across the country.  And next week, I'll send Congress a budget that will rebuild our transportation systems and support millions of jobs nationwide.  There's a lot we can do if we work together.  And while Congress decides what it's going to do, I'm going to keep doing everything in my power to rebuild an economy where everyone who works hard has the chance to get ahead - where we're restoring our founding vision of opportunity for all.  Thanks, everybody, and have a great weekend.
.  This week, I traveled to New England, where I was joined by four governors who are working to raise the minimum wage in each of their states.  And they've also joined me in calling on Congress to raise the minimum wage from $7.25 to $10.10 an hour.  Because it would give nearly 800,000 Americans in their states a raise - and lift wages for about 28 million across the country. So these governors aren't waiting for Congress to make up its mind.  And in my State of the Union Address, I asked America's business leaders to go ahead and do what they could to raise their employees' wages, too.  And increasingly, it's not just large companies like Costco or the Gap that choose to pay their employees higher starting wages.  It's smaller businesses like Jaxson's, a family-owned ice cream parlor in South Florida.  They answered the call and raised their wages so that more than 70 employees would earn at least $10.10 an hour, without cutting back on hiring. And two weeks ago, an Atlanta small business owner named Darien Southerland [SUTH-er-lind] wrote me to share a lesson his grandmother taught him - that if you treat your employees right, they'll treat you right.  And Vice President Biden paid him a visit this week. I agree with these business owners, which is why I issued an executive order requiring federal contractors to pay their employees a fair wage of at least $10.10 an hour.  It's good for our bottom line.  And working Americans have struggled through stagnant wages for far too long. A clear majority of Americans support raising the minimum wage, because we believe that nobody who works full-time should have to live in poverty.  About half of all Republicans support raising the minimum wage, too.  It's just too bad they don't serve in Congress.  Because the Republicans who do serve in Congress don't want to vote on the minimum wage at all.  Some even want to get rid of it completely.  Seriously. That's why what business leaders and everyday Americans are doing to raise wages is so important.  Because change doesn't come from Washington - change comes to Washington.  I've always believed that, and it's true in this case, too.  Outside Washington, Americans are ready to put aside old political arguments and move this country forward.  The American people are way ahead of Congress on this issue, and we've just got to let Congress know that.  It's time for "ten-ten."  It's time to give America a raise.  And it's time to restore opportunity for all. Thanks, and have a great weekend.
.  In this year of action, I'm doing everything I can, with or without Congress, to expand opportunity for more Americans.  This week, I ordered a review of our nation's overtime rules, to give more Americans the chance to earn the overtime pay they've worked for.  Here's why this matters.  Our businesses have created 8.7 million new jobs over the past four years.  But in many ways, the trends that have battered the middle class for decades have grown even starker.  While those at the top are doing better than ever, average wages have barely budged.  Too many Americans are working harder than ever just to keep up. We've got to build an economy that works for everybody, not just a fortunate few.  We know from our history that our economy grows best from the middle out, when growth is more widely shared.  So we've got to restore opportunity for all - the idea that with hard work and responsibility, you can get ahead.  Now, for more than 75 years, the 40-hour workweek and the overtime protections that come with it have helped countless workers climb the ladder of success.  But today, an overtime exception originally meant for highly-paid employees now applies to workers who earn as little as $23,660 a year.  It doesn't matter if you do mostly physical labor, or if you work 50, 60, even 70 hours a week.  Your employer may not have to pay you a single extra dime.      In some cases, this rule makes it possible for workers earning a salary to actually be paid less than the minimum wage.  And it means that business owners who treat their employees fairly can be undercut by competitors who don't.  That's not right.  So we're going to update those overtime rules to restore that basic principle that if you have to work more, you should be able to earn more.  And we'll do it by consulting workers and businesses, and simplifying the system so it's easier for everyone.  Americans have spent too long working more and getting less in return.  So wherever and whenever I can make sure that our economy rewards hard work and responsibility, that's what I'm going to do.  Because what every American wants is a paycheck that lets them support their families, know a little economic security, and pass down some hope and optimism to their kids.  That's something worth fighting for.  And I'll keep fighting for it as long as I'm President.  Thanks, and have a great weekend.
.  This week, I visited a community college in Florida, where I spoke with students about what we need to do to make sure our economy rewards the hard work of every American. More specifically, I spoke about making sure our economy rewards the hard work of women.  Today, women make up about half of our workforce, and more than half of our college graduates.  More women are now their families' main breadwinner than ever before.  But in a lot of ways, our economy hasn't caught up to this new reality yet.  On average, a woman still earns just 77 cents for every dollar a man does.  And too many women face outdated workplace policies that hold them back - which in turn holds back our families and our entire economy. A woman deserves to earn equal pay for equal work, and paid leave that lets you take a day off to care for a sick child or parent.  Congress needs to act on these priorities.  And when women hold most lower-wage jobs in America, Congress needs to raise the minimum wage.  Because no woman who works full-time should ever have to raise her children in poverty. Now, the good news is that in the year since I first called on Congress to raise the minimum wage, six states have passed laws to raise theirs.  More states, counties, and cities are working to raise their minimum wages as we speak.  Small businesses like St. Louis-based Pi Pizzeria, are raising their wages too - not out of charity, but because it's good for business.  And by the way, Pi makes a really good pizza.  And in this year of action, I signed an executive order requiring federal contractors to pay their employees a fair wage of at least ten dollars and ten cents an hour.  But if we're truly going to reward the hard work of every American, Congress needs to join the rest of the country and pass a bill that would lift the federal minimum wage to ten dollars and ten cents an hour.  This wouldn't just raise wages for minimum wage workers - its effects would lift wages for nearly 28 million Americans across this country.  It will give businesses more customers with more money to spend, and grow the economy for everybody.  So call up your Member of Congress and let them know it's time for "ten-ten."  It's time to give America a raise.  A true opportunity agenda is one that works for working women. Because when women succeed, America succeeds.  We do better when everyone participates, and when everyone who works hard has the chance to get ahead.  That's what opportunity means - and it's why I'll keep fighting to restore it.  Thanks, everybody, and have a great weekend.
.  My top priority as President is to grow the economy and help more hardworking Americans get ahead.  And after the worst economic crisis in our lifetimes, our businesses have now created 12.6 million new jobs over the past 63 months.   That's a record streak of job creation.  And it's come as we've been working to reform our schools, revitalize manufacturing and the auto industry, revamp our job training programs - and rework our health care system, covering more than 16 million uninsured Americans so far.   We've done all of this to rebuild our economy on a new foundation, a foundation for growth that benefits not only us, but our kids, and their kids.  Because we do live in a new economy.  And we've got to adapt to make sure America leads the way in this new century, just like we did in the last.   Part of that means sparking new sources of growth and job creation that keep us on the cutting edge.  And one big way to do that is through smart new trade agreements that level the playing field for our workers, open new markets for our businesses, and hold other countries to the kinds of high standards that Americans are proud to hold ourselves to here at home.    Simply put, America has to write the rules of the 21st century economy in a way that benefits American workers.  If we don't, countries like China will write those rules in a way that benefits their workers.   Now, on Friday, Republicans and Democrats in the House of Representatives voted to help the United States negotiate new trade deals that are both free and fair - deals that expand opportunity for our workers and our businesses alike.  And that's good.  These kinds of trade deals say no to a race for the bottom, for lower wages and working conditions.  They're about starting a race to the top, for higher wages, and better working conditions, stronger environmental protections, and a smarter way to crack down on countries that break the rules of the global economy.    But that's not all we should be doing for our workers.  Right now, something called Trade Adjustment Assistance provides vital support, like job-training and community college education, to tens of thousands of American workers each year who were hurt by past trade deals - the kind we're not going to repeat again.  Republicans and Democrats in the Senate have voted to renew this initiative, but so far, the House of Representatives has chosen to let it expire in just a few months, leaving as many as 100,000 American workers on their own.  For the sake of those workers, their families, and their communities, I urge those Members of Congress who voted against Trade Adjustment Assistance to reconsider, and stand up for American workers.   Because these smart new trade deals aren't just about growing our economy and supporting good new American jobs.  This is about the kind of country we want to build for our kids and our grandkids.  And if I did not think that smart new trade deals were the right thing to do for working families, I wouldn't be fighting for it.    This is the right thing to do.  Trade that's fair and free and smart will grow opportunity for our middle class.  It will help us restore the dream we share, and make sure that every American who works hard has a chance to get ahead.  That's a cause worth fighting for - today, and every day I have the honor of serving as your President.   Thanks everybody, and have a great weekend.
.  One of the remarkable things about America is that nearly all of our families originally came from someplace else.  We're a nation of immigrants.  It's a source of our strength and something we all can take pride in.  And this month - Immigrant Heritage Month - is a chance to share our American stories. I think about my grandparents in Kansas - where they met and where my mom was born.  Their family tree reached back to England and Ireland and elsewhere.  They lived, and raised me, by basic values: working hard, giving back, and treating others the way you want to be treated.   I think of growing up in Hawaii, a place enriched by people of different backgrounds - native Hawaiian, Filipino, Japanese, Chinese, Portuguese and just about everything else.  Growing up in that vibrant mix helped shape who I am today.  And while my father was not an immigrant himself, my own life journey as an African-American - and the heritage shared by Michelle and our daughters, some of whose ancestors came here in chains - has made our family who we are. This month, I'm inviting you to share your story, too.  Just visit  whitehouse.gov/NewAmericans .  We want to hear how you or your family made it to America - whether you're an immigrant yourself or your great-great-grandparents were. Of course, we can't just celebrate this heritage, we have to defend it - by fixing our broken immigration system.  Nearly two years ago, Democrats and Republicans in the Senate came together to do that.  They passed a commonsense bill to secure our border, get rid of backlogs, and give undocumented immigrants who are already living here a pathway to citizenship if they paid a fine, paid their taxes, and went to the back of the line.  But for nearly two years, Republican leaders in the House have refused to even allow a vote on it.  That's why, in the meantime, I'm going to keep doing everything I can to make our immigration system more just and more fair.  Last fall, I took action to provide more resources for border security; focus enforcement on the real threats to our security; modernize the legal immigration system for workers, employers, and students; and bring more undocumented immigrants out of the shadows so they can get right with the law.  Some folks are still fighting against these actions.  I'm going to keep fighting for them.  Because the law is on our side.  It's the right thing to do.  And it will make America stronger.  I want us to remember people like Ann Dermody from Alexandria, Virginia.  She's originally from Ireland and has lived in America legally for years.  She worked hard, played by the rules and dreamed of becoming a citizen.  In March, her dream came true.  And before taking the oath, she wrote me a letter.  "The papers we receive...will not change our different accents [or] skin tones," Ann said.  "But for that day, at least, we'll feel like we have arrived." Well, to Ann and immigrants like her who have come to our shores seeking a better life - yes, you have arrived.  And by sharing our stories, and staying true to our heritage as a nation of immigrants, we can keep that dream alive for generations to come. Thanks, and have a great weekend
. This week, there was a big birthday you might have missed. Medicare and Medicaid turned 50 years old. And that's something worth celebrating. If one of the best measures of a country is how it treats its more vulnerable citizens -- seniors, the poor, the sick -- then America has a lot to be proud of. Think about it. Before Social Security, too many seniors lived in poverty. Before Medicare, only half had some form of health insurance. Before Medicaid, parents often had no help covering the cost of care for a child with a disability. But as Americans, we declared that our citizens deserve a basic measure of security and dignity. And today, the poverty rate for seniors is less than half of what it was fifty years ago. Every American over 65 has access to affordable health care. And today, we're finally finishing the job -- since I signed the Affordable Care Act into law, the uninsured rate for all Americans has fallen by about one-third. These promises we made as a nation have saved millions of our own people from poverty and hardship, allowing us new freedom, new independence, and the chance to live longer, better lives. That's something to be proud of. It's heroic. These endeavors -- these American endeavors -- they didn't just make us a better country. They reaffirmed that we are a great country. And a great country keeps the promises it makes. Today, we're often told that Medicare and Medicaid are in crisis. But that's usually a political excuse to cut their funding, privatize them, or phase them out entirely -- all of which would undermine their core guarantee. The truth is, these programs aren't in crisis. Nor have they kept us from cutting our deficits by two-thirds since I took office. What is true is that every month, another 250,000 Americans turn 65 years old, and become eligible for Medicare. And we all deserve a health care system that delivers efficient, high-quality care. So to keep these programs strong, we'll have to make smart changes over time, just like we always have. Today, we're actually proving that's possible. The Affordable Care Act has already helped secure Medicare's funding for another 13 years. The Affordable Care Act has saved more than nine million folks on Medicare 15 billion dollars on their prescription medicine. It has expanded Medicaid to help cover 12.8 million more Americans, and to help more seniors live independently. And we're moving our health care system toward models that reward the quality of the care you receive, not the quantity of care you receive. That means healthier Americans and a healthier federal budget. Today, these programs are so fundamental to our way of life that it's easy to forget how hard people fought against them at the time. When FDR created Social Security, critics called it socialism. When JFK and LBJ worked to create Medicare, the cynics said it would take away our freedom. But ultimately, we came to see these programs for what they truly are -- a promise that if we work hard, and play by the rules, we'll be rewarded with a basic measure of dignity, security, and the freedom to live our lives as we want. It's a promise that previous generations made to us, and a promise that our generation has to keep. Thanks, and have a great weekend.
.  Earlier this week was Equal Pay Day.  It marks the extra time the average woman has to work into a new year to earn what a man earned the year before.  You see, the average woman who works full-time in America earns less than a man - even when she's in the same profession and has the same education.  That's wrong.  In 2014, it's an embarrassment. Women deserve equal pay for equal work. This is an economic issue that affects all of us.  Women make up about half our workforce.  And more and more, they're our families' main breadwinners.  So it's good for everyone when women are paid fairly.  That's why, this week, I took action to prohibit more businesses from punishing workers who discuss their salaries - because more pay transparency makes it easier to spot pay discrimination.  And I hope more business leaders will take up this cause. But equal pay is just one part of an economic agenda for women. Most lower-wage workers in America are women.  So I've taken executive action to require federal contractors to pay their federally-funded employees at least ten dollars and ten cents an hour.  I ordered a review of our nation's overtime rules, to give more workers the chance to earn the overtime pay they deserve.  Thanks to the Affordable Care Act, tens of millions of women are now guaranteed free preventive care like mammograms and contraceptive care, and the days when you could be charged more just for being a woman are over for good.  Across the country, we're bringing Americans together to help us make sure that a woman can have a baby without sacrificing her job, or take a day off to care for a sick child or parent without hitting hardship.  It's time to do away with workplace policies that belong in a "Mad Men" episode, and give every woman the opportunity she deserves. Here's the problem, though.  On issues that would benefit millions of women, Republicans in Congress have blocked progress at every turn. Just this week, Senate Republicans blocked the Paycheck Fairness Act, commonsense legislation that would help more women win equal pay for equal work.  House Republicans won't vote to raise the minimum wage or extend unemployment insurance for women out of work through no fault of their own.  The budget they passed this week would force deep cuts to investments that overwhelmingly benefit women and children - like Medicaid, food stamps, and college grants.  And of course, they're trying to repeal the Affordable Care Act for the fiftieth or so time, which would take away vital benefits and protections from millions of women. I'm going to keep fighting to make sure that doesn't happen.  Because we do better when our economy grows for everybody, not just a few.  And when women succeed, America succeeds.  Thanks, and have a great weekend.
.  The right to vote is one of the most fundamental rights of any democracy.  Yet for too long, too many of our fellow citizens were denied that right, simply because of the color of their skin. Fifty years ago this week, President Lyndon Johnson signed a law to change that.  The Voting Rights Act broke down legal barriers that stood between millions of African Americans and their constitutional right to cast ballot.  It was, and still is, one of the greatest victories in our country's struggle for civil rights.  But it didn't happen overnight.  Countless men and women marched and organized, sat in and stood up, for our most basic rights.  For this they were called agitators and un-American, they were jailed and beaten.  Some were even killed.  But in the end, they reaffirmed the idea at the very heart of America: that people who love this country can change it. Our country is a better place because of all those heroes did for us.  But as one of those heroes, Congressman John Lewis, reminded us in Selma this past March, "There's still work to be done."  Fifty years after the Voting Rights Act, there are still too many barriers to vote, and too many people trying to erect new ones.  We've seen laws that roll back early voting, force people to jump through hoops to cast a ballot, or lead to legitimate voters being improperly purged from the rolls.  Over the years, we have seen provisions specifically designed to make it harder for some of our fellow citizens to vote.  In a democracy like ours, with a history like ours, that's a disgrace. That's why, as we celebrate the 50th Anniversary of the Voting Rights Act, I'm calling on Congress to pass new legislation to make sure every American has equal access to the polls.  It's why I support the organizers getting folks registered in their communities.  And it's why, no matter what party you support, my message to every American is simple: get out there and vote - not just every four years, but every chance you get.  Because your elected officials will only heed your voice if you make your voice heard.  The promise that all of us are created equal is written into our founding documents - but it's up to us to make that promise real.  Together, let's do what Americans have always done: let's keep marching forward, keep perfecting our union, and keep building a better country for our kids.  Thanks everybody. Have a great weekend.
.  For millions of Americans, this time of year holds great meaning.   Earlier this week, we hosted a Passover Seder at the White House, and joined Jewish families around the world in their retellings of the story of the Exodus and the victory of faith over oppression.  And this Sunday, Michelle, Malia, Sasha, and I will join our fellow Christians around the world in celebrating the Resurrection of Christ, the salvation he offered the world, and the hope that comes with the Easter season. These holy days have their roots in miracles that took place long ago.  And yet, they still inspire us, guide us, and strengthen us today.  They remind us of our responsibilities to God and, as God's children, our responsibilities to one another.  For me, and for countless other Christians, Holy Week and Easter are times for reflection and renewal.  We remember the grace of an awesome God, who loves us so deeply that He gave us his only Son, so that we might live through Him.  We recall all that Jesus endured for us - the scorn of the crowds, the agony of the cross - all so that we might be forgiven our sins and granted everlasting life.  And we recommit ourselves to following His example, to love and serve one another, particularly "the least of these" among us, just as He loves every one of us. The common thread of humanity that connects us all - not just Christians and Jews, but Muslims and Hindus and Sikhs - is our shared commitment to love our neighbors as we love ourselves.  To remember, I am my brother's keeper. I am my sister's keeper.  Whatever your faith, believer or nonbeliever, there's no better time to rededicate ourselves to that universal mission.  For me, Easter is a story of hope - a belief in a better day to come, just around the bend. So to all Christians who are celebrating, from my family to yours, Happy Easter.  And to every American, have a joyful weekend. Thanks, God bless you, and may God bless this country we love.
.  Today, our economy is growing and our businesses are consistently generating new jobs.  But decades-long trends still threaten the middle class.  While those at the top are doing better than ever, too many Americans are working harder than ever, but feel like they can't get ahead. That's why the budget I sent Congress earlier this year is built on the idea of opportunity for all.  It will grow the middle class and shrink the deficits we've already cut in half since I took office. It's an opportunity agenda with four goals. Number one is creating more good jobs that pay good wages. Number two is training more Americans with the skills to fill those jobs. Number three is guaranteeing every child access to a great education.  And number four is making work pay - with wages you can live on, savings you can retire on, and health care that's there for you when you need it.  This week, the Republicans in Congress put forward a very different budget.  And it does just the opposite: it shrinks opportunity and makes it harder for Americans who work hard to get ahead.  The Republican budget begins by handing out massive tax cuts to households making more than $1 million a year.  Then, to keep from blowing a hole in the deficit, they'd have to raise taxes on middle-class families with kids.  Next, their budget forces deep cuts to investments that help our economy create jobs, like education and scientific research.  Now, they won't tell you where these cuts will fall.  But compared to my budget, if they cut everything evenly, then within a few years, about 170,000 kids will be cut from early education programs.  About 200,000 new mothers and kids will be cut off from programs to help them get healthy food.  Schools across the country will lose funding that supports 21,000 special education teachers.  And if they want to make smaller cuts to one of these areas, that means larger cuts in others.  Unsurprisingly, the Republican budget also tries to repeal the Affordable Care Act - even though that would take away health coverage from the more than seven million Americans who've done the responsible thing and signed up to buy health insurance.  And for good measure, their budget guts the rules we put in place to protect the middle class from another financial crisis like the one we've had to fight so hard to recover from. Policies that benefit a fortunate few while making it harder for working Americans to succeed are not what we need right now.  Our economy doesn't grow best from the top-down; it grows best from the middle-out.  That's what my opportunity agenda does - and it's what I'll keep fighting for.  Thanks.  And have a great weekend.
.  In my State of the Union Address, I talked about pizza.  More specifically, I talked about a pizza chain in Minneapolis - Punch Pizza - whose owner, John Soranno, made the business decision to give his employees a raise to ten bucks an hour. A couple weeks ago, I got a letter from a small business owner who watched that night.  Yasmin Ibrahim is an immigrant who owns her own restaurant - Desi Shack - and plans to open another this summer.  Here's what she wrote.  "I was moved by John Soranno's story.  It got me thinking about my ... full-time employees and their ability to survive on $8 an hour in New York City."  So a few weeks ago, Yasmin put in place a plan to lift wages for her employees at both her restaurants to at least $10 an hour by the end of this year.  But here's the thing - Yasmin isn't just raising her employees' wages because it's the right thing to do.  She's doing it for the same reason John Soranno did. It makes good business sense.  Yasmin wrote, "It will allow us to attract and retain better talent - improving customer experience, reducing employee churn and training costs.  We believe doing so makes good business sense while at the same time having a positive impact on the community." Yasmin's right.  That's why, two months ago, I issued an Executive Order requiring workers on new federal contracts to be paid a fair wage of at least ten dollars and ten cents an hour. But in order to make a difference for every American, Congress needs to do something.  And America knows it.  Right now, there's a bill that would boost America's minimum wage to ten dollars and ten cents an hour.  That would lift wages for nearly 28 million Americans across the country.  28 million.  And we're not just talking about young people on their first job.  The average minimum wage worker is 35 years old.  They work hard, often in physically demanding jobs.  And while not all of us always see eye to eye politically, one thing we overwhelmingly agree on is that nobody who works full-time should ever have to live in poverty.  That's why nearly three in four Americans support raising the minimum wage.  The problem is, Republicans in Congress don't support raising the minimum wage.  Some even want to get rid of it entirely.  In Oklahoma, for example, the Republican governor just signed a law prohibiting cities from establishing their own minimum wage.  That's why this fight is so important.  That's why people like John and Yasmin are giving their workers a raise.  That's why several states, counties, and cities are going around Congress to raise their workers' wages.  That's why I'll keep up this fight.  Because we know that our economy works best when it works for all of us - not just a fortunate few.  We believe we do better when everyone who works hard has a chance to get ahead.  That's what opportunity is all about. And if you agree with us, we could use your help.  Republicans have voted more than 50 times to undermine or repeal health care for millions of Americans.  They should vote at least once to raise the minimum wage for millions of working families.  If a Republican in Congress represents you, tell him or her it's time to give the politics a rest for a while and do something to help working Americans.  It's time for "ten-ten."  It's time to give America a raise.  Thanks, and have a great weekend.
.  My number one priority as President is doing whatever I can to create more jobs and opportunity for hardworking families.  And yesterday, we learned that businesses added 273,000 jobs last month.  All told, our businesses have now created 9.2 million new jobs over 50 consecutive months of job growth. But we need to keep going - to create more good jobs, and give middle-class families a sense of security.  And I want to work with Congress to do it. But so far this year, Republicans in Congress have blocked or voted down every serious idea to create jobs and strengthen the middle class.  They've said "no" to raising the minimum wage, "no" to equal pay for equal work, and "no" to restoring the unemployment insurance they let expire for more than two million Americans looking for a new job.  That's not what we need right now.  Not when there are still too many folks out of work and too many families working harder than ever just to get by.  That's why, in my State of the Union Address, I said that in this Year of Action, whenever I can act on my own to create jobs and expand opportunity for more Americans, I will.  And since January, I've taken more than 20 executive actions to do just that. I acted to raise more workers' wages by requiring that workers on new federal contracts earn a fair wage of at least $10.10 an hour - and as long as Republicans in Congress refuse to act, I'll keep working with cities, states, and businesses to give more Americans a raise.  I acted to encourage more pay transparency and strengthen enforcement of equal pay laws, so that more women have the tools they need to earn fair pay.  And I'm modernizing regulations to make sure that more Americans who work overtime get the pay that they've earned.  I've launched new hubs to help attract more high-tech manufacturing jobs to America - and ordered a reform of job training programs to make sure more Americans can earn the skills that employers need right now.  I've brought together business leaders to help us connect more classrooms to high-speed internet, and give more of the long-term unemployed a better shot at finding a job.  Each of these steps will make a difference.  You can check out the full list at whitehouse.gov. But we could do a lot more if Republicans in Congress were less interested in stacking the deck in favor of those at the top, and more interested in growing the economy for everybody.  They've now voted more than 50 times to take apart the Affordable Care Act - imagine if they voted 50 times on serious jobs bills. That's why I'm going to take action on my own wherever I can.  To grow our economy from the middle-out, not the top down.  To give every American who works hard a chance to get ahead.  That's what this Year of Action is all about, and that's what I'm going to keep fighting for.  Thanks, and have a great weekend.
.  At a time when our businesses have created 9.2 million new jobs in just over four years, and more companies are considering bringing jobs back from overseas, we have a choice to make.  We can make it easier for businesses to invest in America - or we can make it harder.  I want to work with Congress to create jobs and opportunity for more Americans.  But where Congress won't act, I will.  And I want to talk about three things we're doing right now. First, we're helping more businesses bring jobs to America from overseas.  Three years ago, my Administration created SelectUSA - a team of people in embassies abroad and agencies here at home focused on insourcing instead of outsourcing.  Today, they're helping a Belgian company create jobs in Oklahoma. They're helping a Canadian company create jobs in Kansas.  In my State of the Union Address, I asked more businesses to do their part.  And this week, business leaders from across the country are coming here to the White House to discuss new investments that will create even more jobs. Second, on Thursday, I'll be heading to Cooperstown, New York - home of the Baseball Hall of Fame - to talk about tourism.  Because believe it or not, tourism is an export.  And if we make it easier for more foreign visitors to visit and spend money at America's attractions and unparalleled national parks, that helps local businesses and grows the economy for everyone.  Finally, we know that investing in first-class infrastructure attracts first-class jobs.  And I want to spend a minute on this, because it's very important this year. We know business owners don't seek out crumbling roads and bridges and backed-up supply chains.  They set up shop where the newest, fastest transportation and communications networks let them invent and sell goods Made in America to the rest of the world as fast as possible. Here's the problem: If Congress doesn't act by the end of this summer, federal funding for transportation projects will run out.  States might have to put some of their projects on hold.  In fact, some already are, because they're worried Congress won't clear up its own gridlock.  And if Congress fails to act, nearly 700,000 jobs would be at risk over the next year. That's why I put forward a plan to rebuild our transportation infrastructure in a more responsible way.  It would support millions of jobs across the country.  And we'd pay for it without adding to the deficit by closing wasteful tax loopholes for companies that ship jobs overseas. Now, the Republicans in Congress seem to have very different priorities.  Not only have they neglected to prevent this funding from running out, their proposal would actually cut by 80% a job-creating grant program that has funded high-priority transportation projects in all 50 states. And they can't say it's to save money, because at the very same time, they voted for trillions of dollars in new tax cuts, weighted towards those at the very top.  Think about that.  Instead of putting people to work on projects that would grow the economy for everyone, they voted to give a huge tax cut to households making more than $1 million a year. So while Congress decides what it's going to do, I'll keep doing what I can on my own. On Wednesday, I was in New York where workers are building the area's first large new bridge in 50 years.  And they're doing it ahead of schedule.  Three years ago, I took action without Congress to fast-track the permitting process for major projects.  Normally, it would have taken three to five years to permit that bridge.  We did it in a year and a half.  And I announced a new plan to cut red tape and speed up the process for even more projects across the country. All these steps will make it easier for businesses to invest in America and create more good jobs.  All of them can be done without Congress.  But we could do a lot more if Congress was willing to help.  In the meantime, I'll do whatever I can - not just to make America a better place to do business, but to make sure hard work pays off, and opportunity is open to all. Thanks, and have a great weekend.
's National Medical Center in Washington, D.C.  May 31, 2014 Hi, everybody.  I'm here at Children's National Medical Center in Washington, D.C., visiting with some kids being treated here all the time for asthma and other breathing problems.  Often, these illnesses are aggravated by air pollution - pollution from the same sources that release carbon and contribute to climate change.  And for the sake of all our kids, we've got to do more to reduce it. Earlier this month, hundreds of scientists declared that climate change is no longer a distant threat - it "has moved firmly into the present." Its costs can be measured in lost lives and livelihoods, lost homes and businesses; and higher prices for food, insurance, and rebuilding. That's why, last year, I put forward America's first climate action plan.  This plan cuts carbon pollution by building a clean energy economy - using more clean energy, less dirty energy, and wasting less energy throughout our economy.  One of the best things we can do for our economy, our health, and our environment is to lead the world in producing cleaner, safer energy - and we're already generating more clean energy than ever before.  Thanks in part to the investments we made in the Recovery Act, the electricity America generates from wind has tripled.  And from the sun, it's increased more than tenfold. In fact, every four minutes, another American home or business goes solar - and every panel is pounded into place by a worker whose job cannot be shipped overseas. We're wasting less energy, too.  We've doubled how far our cars and trucks will go on a gallon of gas by the middle of the next decade, saving you money at the pump - and we're helping families and businesses save billions with more efficient homes, buildings, and appliances. This strategy has created jobs, grown our economy, and helped make America more energy independent than we've been in decades - all while holding our carbon emissions to levels not seen in about 20 years.  It's a good start.  But for the sake of our children, we have to do more.  This week, we will.  Today, about 40% of America's carbon pollution comes from power plants.  But right now, there are no national limits to the amount of carbon pollution that existing plants can pump into the air we breathe. None. We limit the amount of toxic chemicals like mercury, sulfur, and arsenic that power plants put in our air and water.  But they can dump unlimited amounts of carbon pollution into the air.  It's not smart, it's not safe, and it doesn't make sense. That's why, a year ago, I directed the Environmental Protection Agency to build on the efforts of many states, cities, and companies, and come up with commonsense guidelines for reducing dangerous carbon pollution from our power plants.  This week, we're unveiling these proposed guidelines, which will cut down on the carbon pollution, smog, and soot that threaten the health of the most vulnerable Americans, including children and the elderly.  In just the first year that these standards go into effect, up to 100,000 asthma attacks and 2,100 heart attacks will be avoided - and those numbers will go up from there.  These standards were created in an open and transparent way, with input from the business community.  States and local governments weighed in, too.  In fact, nearly a dozen states are already implementing their own market-based programs to reduce carbon pollution.  And over 1,000 mayors have signed agreements to cut their cities' carbon pollution.  So the idea of setting higher standards to cut pollution at our power plants is not new.  It's just time for Washington to catch up with the rest of the country. Now, special interests and their allies in Congress will claim that these guidelines will kill jobs and crush the economy.  Let's face it, that's what they always say.  But every time America has set clear rules and better standards for our air, our water, and our children's health - the warnings of the cynics have been wrong.  They warned that doing something about the smog choking our cities, and acid rain poisoning our lakes, would kill business.  It didn't.  Our air got cleaner, acid rain was cut dramatically, and our economy kept growing. These excuses for inaction somehow suggest a lack of faith in American businesses and American ingenuity.  The truth is, when we ask our workers and businesses to innovate, they do.  When we raise the bar, they meet it.  When we restricted cancer-causing chemicals in plastics and leaded fuel in our cars, American chemists came up with better substitutes.  When we phased out the gases that depleted the ozone layer, American workers built better refrigerators and air conditioners.  The fuel standards we put in place a few years ago didn't cripple automakers; the American auto industry retooled, and today, they're selling the best cars in the world, with more hybrids, plug-in, and fuel-efficient models to choose from than ever before. In America, we don't have to choose between the health of our economy and the health of our children.  The old rules may say we can't protect our environment and promote economic growth at the same time, but in America, we've always used new technology to break the old rules. As President, and as a parent, I refuse to condemn our children to a planet that's beyond fixing.  The shift to a cleaner energy economy won't happen overnight, and it will require tough choices along the way.  But a low-carbon, clean energy economy can be an engine of growth for decades to come.  America will build that engine.  America will build the future.  A future that's cleaner, more prosperous, and full of good jobs - a future where we can look our kids in the eye and tell them we did our part to leave them a safer, more stable world. Thanks, and have a great weekend.
.  Sunday is Father's Day.  If you haven't got Dad a gift yet, there's still time.  Just barely. But the truth is, what we give our fathers can never match what our fathers give us.  I know how important it is to have a dad in your life, because I grew up without my father around.  I felt the weight of his absence.  So for Michelle and our girls, I try every day to be the husband and father my family didn't have when I was young.  And every chance I get, I encourage fathers to get more involved in their children's lives, because what makes you a man isn't the ability to have a child - it's the courage to raise one.  Still, over the past couple years, I've met with a lot of young people who don't have a father figure around.  And while there's nothing that can replace a parent, any of us can do our part to be a mentor, a sounding board, a role model for a kid who needs one.  Earlier this year, I launched an initiative called My Brother's Keeper - an all-hands-on-deck effort to help more of our young men reach their full potential.  And if you want to be a mentor to a young man in your community, you can find out how at  WhiteHouse.gov/MyBrothersKeeper . Now, when I launched this initiative, I said that government can't play the primary role in a young person's life.  Taking responsibility for being a great parent or mentor is a choice that we, as individuals, have to make.  No government program can ever take the place of a parent's love.  Still, as a country, there are ways we can help support dads and moms who make that choice.  That's why, earlier this week, we brought working dads from across America to the White House to talk about the challenges they face.  And in a few weeks, I'll hold the first-ever White House Working Families Summit.  We've still got too many workplace policies that belong in the 1950s, and it's time to bring them up to date for today's families, where oftentimes, both parents are working.  Moms and dads deserve affordable child care, and time off to care for a sick parent or child without running into hardship.  Women deserve equal pay for equal work - and at a time when more women are breadwinners for a family, that benefits men, too.  And because no parent who works full-time should have to raise a family in poverty, it's time for Congress to follow the lead of state after state, get on the bandwagon, and give America a raise. Dads work hard.  So our country should do what we can to make sure their hard work pays off; to make sure life for them and their families is a little less stressful, and a little more secure, so they can be the dads their kids need them to be.  Because there's nothing more precious in life than the time we spend with our children.  There's no better feeling than knowing that we can be there for them, and provide for them, and help give them every shot at success.  Let's make sure every dad who works hard and takes responsibility has the chance to know that feeling, not just on one Sunday, but every day of the year.  Thanks everybody, happy Father's Day, and have a great weekend.
.  This week, I spent a couple days in Minneapolis, talking with people about their lives - their concerns, their successes, and their hopes for the future. I went because of a letter I received from a working mother named Rebekah, who shared with me the hardships her young family has faced since the financial crisis.  She and her husband Ben were just newlyweds expecting their first child, Jack, when the housing crash dried up his contracting business.  He took what jobs he could, and Rebekah took out student loans and retrained for a new career.  They sacrificed - for their kids, and for each other.  And five years later, they've paid off debt, bought their first home, and had their second son, Henry. In her letter to me, she wrote, "We are a strong, tight-knit family who has made it through some very, very hard times."  And in many ways, that's America's story these past five years.  We are a strong, tight-knit family that's made it through some very tough times.  Today, over the past 51 months, our businesses have created 9.4 million new jobs.  By measure after measure, our economy is doing better than it was five years ago. But as Rebekah also wrote in her letter, there are still too many middle-class families like hers who do everything right - who work hard and who sacrifice - but can't seem to get ahead.  It feels like the odds are stacked against them.  And with just a small change in our priorities, we could fix that. The problem is, Republicans in Congress keep blocking or voting down almost every serious idea to strengthen the middle class.  This year alone, they've said no to raising the minimum wage, no to fair pay, no to student loan reform, no to extending unemployment insurance.  And rather than invest in education that helps working families get ahead, they actually voted to give another massive tax cut to the wealthiest Americans. This obstruction keeps the system rigged for those at the top, and rigged against the middle class.  And as long as they insist on doing it, I'll keep taking actions on my own - like the actions I've taken already to attract new jobs, lift workers' wages, and help students pay off their loans.  I'll do my job.  And if it makes Republicans in Congress mad that I'm trying to help people out, they can join me, and we'll do it together. The point is, we could do so much more as a country - as a strong, tight-knit family - if Republicans in Congress were less interested in stacking the deck for those at the top, and more interested in growing the economy for everybody.   So rather than more tax breaks for millionaires, let's give more tax breaks to help working families pay for child care or college.  Rather than protect tax loopholes that let big corporations set up tax shelters overseas, let's put people to work rebuilding roads and bridges right here in America.  Rather than stack the decks in favor of those who've already succeeded, let's realize that we are stronger as a nation when we offer a fair shot to every American. I'm going to spend some time talking about these very choices in the week ahead.  That's because we know from our history that our economy doesn't grow from the top-down, it grows from the middle-out.  We do better when the middle class does better.  That's the American way.  That's what I believe in.  And that's what I'll keep fighting for.  Have a great Fourth of July, everybody - and good luck to Team USA down in Brazil. Thanks.
. Today, I'm at Del Sol High School, in Las Vegas, to talk with students and families about immigration. We are a nation of immigrants. It has always given America a big advantage over other nations. It keeps our country young, dynamic, and entrepreneurial. But today, our immigration system is broken, and everybody knows it. That's why, nearly two years ago, I came to this school and laid out principles for immigration reform. And five months later, Democrats, Republicans, and Independents in the Senate came together to pass a commonsense compromise bill. That bill would have secured our border, while giving undocumented immigrants who already live here a pathway to citizenship if they paid a fine, started paying their taxes, and went to the back of the line. Independent experts said it would grow our economy, and shrink our deficits. Now, had the House of Representatives allowed a yes-or-no vote on that kind of bill, it would have passed with support from both parties. Today it would be the law. But for a year and a half, Republican leaders in the House have refused to allow that simple vote. Now, I still believe that the best way to solve this problem is by working together -- both parties -- to pass that kind of bipartisan law. But until that happens, there are actions I have the legal authority to take as President -- the same kinds of actions taken by Democratic and Republican Presidents before me -- that will help make our immigration system more fair and more just. I took those actions this week. We're providing more resources at the border to help law enforcement personnel stop illegal crossings, and send home those who do cross over. We'll focus enforcement resources on people who are threats to our security -- felons, not families; criminals, not children. And we'll bring more undocumented immigrants out of the shadows so they can play by the rules, pay their full share of taxes, pass a criminal background check, and get right with the law. Nothing about this action will benefit anyone who has come to this country recently, or who might try and come to America illegally in the future. It does not grant citizenship, or the right to stay here permanently, or offer the same benefits that citizens receive. And it's certainly not amnesty, no matter how often the critics say it. Amnesty is the immigration system we have today -- millions of people living here without paying their taxes, or playing by the rules. And the actions I took this week will finally start fixing that. As you might have heard, there are Members of Congress who question my authority to make our immigration system work better. Well, I have one answer for that: Pass a bill. The day I sign it into law, the actions I've taken to help solve this problem will no longer be necessary. In the meantime, we can't allow a disagreement over a single issue to be a dealbreaker on every issue. That's not how our democracy works. This debate deserves more than politics as usual. It's important for our future. It's about who we are, and the future we want to build. We are only here because this country welcomed our forebears, and taught them that being American is about more than what we look like or where we come from. What makes us Americans is our shared commitment to an ideal -- that all of us are created equal, and all of us have the chance to make of our lives what we will. That's the country we inherited, and it's the one we have to leave for future generations. Thank you, God bless you, and have a great weekend.
.  It's Memorial Day weekend - a chance for Americans to get together with family and friends, break out the grill, and kick off the unofficial start of summer.  More importantly, it's a time to remember the heroes whose sacrifices made these moments possible - our men and women in uniform who gave their lives to keep our nation safe and free.   From those shots fired at Lexington and Concord more than two centuries ago to our newest generation of veterans of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, our history shines with patriots who answered the call to serve.  They put their lives on the line to defend the country they loved.  And in the end, many gave that "last full measure of devotion" so that our nation would endure.  Every single one of us owes our fallen heroes a profound debt of gratitude.  Because every time we cast our votes or speak our minds without fear, it's because they fought for our right to do that.  Every chance we get to make a better life for ourselves and our families is possible because generations of patriots fought to keep America a land of opportunity, where anyone - of any race, any religion, from any background - can make it if they try.  Our country was born out of a desire to be free, and every day since, it's been protected by our men and women in uniform - people who believed so deeply in America, they were willing to give their lives for it.  We owe them so much.   So this Memorial Day, we'll gather together, as Americans, to honor the fallen, with both public ceremonies and private remembrances.  And I hope all Americans will take a moment this weekend to think of those who have died in service to our nation.  Say a prayer in their memories and for their families.  Lay a flower where they've come to rest.  Reach out to service members, military families or veterans in your community, or families who have lost loved ones, and let them know that their service and sacrifice will never be forgotten. Most of all, let's keep working to make sure that our country upholds our sacred trust to all who've served.  In recent weeks, we've seen again how much more our nation has to do to make sure all our veterans get the care they deserve.  As Commander in Chief, I believe that taking care of our veterans and their families is a sacred obligation.  It's been one of the causes of my presidency.  And now that we've ended the war in Iraq, and as our war in Afghanistan ends as well, we have to work even harder as a nation to make sure all our veterans get the benefits and opportunities they've earned.  They've done their duty, and they ask nothing more than that this country does ours - now and for decades to come.  Happy Memorial Day, everybody.  May God watch over our fallen heroes.  And may He continue to bless the United States of America.
-- Michelle, Malia, Sasha, Bo, and Sunny -- I want to wish you a very happy Thanksgiving. Like many of you, we'll spend the day with family and friends, catching up, eating some good food and watching a little football. Before we lift a fork, we lend a hand by going out in the community to serve some of our neighbors in need. And we give thanks for each other, and for all of God's blessings. Thanksgiving is my favorite holiday because, more than any other, it is uniquely American. Each of us brings our own traditions and cultures and recipes to the table -- but we all share this day, united by the gratitude for the bounty of this nation. And we welcome the contributions of all people -- no matter their origin or color or beliefs -- who call America home, and who enrich the life of our nation. It is a creed as old as our founding: "E pluribus unum" -- that our of many, we are one. We are reminded that this creed, and America itself, was never an inevitability, but the result of ordinary people in every generation doing their part to uphold our founding ideals -- by taking the blessings of freedom, and multiplying them for those who would follow. As President Kennedy once wrote, even as we give thanks for all that we've inherited from those who came before us -- "the decency of purpose, steadfastness of resolve and strength of will, for the courage and the humility, which they posessed," we must also remember that "the highest appreciation is not to utter words but to live by them." Today, we are grateful to all Americans who do their part to live by those ideals, including our brave men and women in uniform overseas and their families, who sacrifice so much to keep America safe. To our service members who are away from home, we say an extra prayer for you and your loved ones, and we renew our commitment to take care of you as well as you've taken care of us. We are grateful to the countless Americans who serve their communities in soup kitchens and shelters, looking out for those who are less fortunate, and lifting up those who have fallen on hard times. This generosity, this compassion, this belief that we are each other's keepers, is essential to who we are, not just on this day, but every day. It's easy to focus on what separates us. But as we gather with loved ones on this Thanksgiving, let's remember and be grateful for what binds us together. Our love of country. Our commitment to justice and equality. Our belief that America's best days are ahead, and that her destiny is ours to shape -- and that our inherited ideals must be the birthright of all of our children. That's what today is all about: that out of many, we are one. Thank you, God bless you, and from my family to yours, Happy Thanksgiving.
.  About a year ago, I promised that 2014 would be a breakthrough year for America.  And this week, we got more evidence to back that up. In December, our businesses created 240,000 new jobs.  The unemployment rate fell to 5.6%.  That means that 2014 was the strongest year for job growth since the 1990s.  In 2014, unemployment fell faster than it has in three decades.  Over a 58-month streak, our businesses have created 11.2 million new jobs.  After a decade of decline, American manufacturing is in its best stretch of job growth since the '90s. America is now the world's number one producer of oil and gas, helping to save drivers about a buck-ten a gallon at the pump over this time last year.  Thanks to the Affordable Care Act, about 10 million Americans have gained health insurance in the past year alone.  We have cut our deficits by about two-thirds.  And after 13 long years, our war in Afghanistan has come to a responsible end, and more of our brave troops have come home. It has been six years since the crisis.  Those years have demanded hard work and sacrifice on everybody's part.  So as a country, we have every right to be proud of what we've got to show for it.  America's resurgence is real.  And now that we've got some calmer waters, if we all do our part, if we all pitch in, we can make sure that tide starts lifting all boats again.  We can make sure that the middle class is the engine that powers America's prosperity for decades to come. That'll be the focus of my State of the Union Address in a couple weeks - building on the progress we've made.  But I figured, why wait - let's get started right now.  On Wednesday, I visited a Ford plant outside of Detroit - because the American auto industry and its home state are redefining the word "comeback."  On Thursday, I traveled to Arizona, a state that was hit among the hardest by the housing crisis, to announce a new plan that will put hundreds of dollars in new homeowners' pockets, and help more new families buy their first home.  And, I'm speaking with you today from Pellissippi State Community College in Tennessee, a state making big strides in education, to unveil my new plan to make two years of community college free for every responsible student.  I'm also here to establish a new hub that will attract more good-paying, high-tech manufacturing jobs to our shores. Making homeownership easier.  Bringing a higher education within reach.  Creating more good jobs that pay good wages.  These are just some of the ways we can help every American get ahead in the new economy.  And there's more to come.  Because America is coming back.  And I want to go full speed ahead.  Thanks, everybody, and have a great weekend.
.  Just in time for the holiday season, we now have another piece of good news about the pace of our economic recovery. Last month, our businesses created 314,000 new jobs.  And that's not a fluke - it keeps up the solid pace of job creation we've seen all year long.  November was the tenth month in a row we've added more than 200,000 jobs.  So far this year, our economy has created 2.65 million new jobs.  That's the most of any year since the 1990s - even with a full month to go.  All told, our businesses have created 10.9 million new jobs over the past 57 months.  And that's the longest streak of private-sector job creation on record. We also know that the upswing in job growth this year has come in industries with higher wages.  Overall wages are on the rise.  And that's some very welcome news for millions of hardworking Americans.  Because even though corporate profits and the stock market have hit all-time highs, the typical family isn't bringing home more than they did 15 years ago.  And that still has to change.  And a vibrant jobs market gives us the opportunity to keep up this progress, and begin to undo that decades-long middle-class squeeze.  But first, we need the outgoing Congress to pass a budget and keep our government open.  A Christmas shutdown is not a good idea.  Then, when the new Congress convenes in January, we need to work together to invest in the things that support faster growth in higher-paying jobs. Building new roads and bridges creates jobs.  Growing our exports creates jobs.  Reforming our outdated tax system and our broken immigration system creates jobs. Raising the minimum wage would benefit nearly 28 million American workers, giving them more money to spend at local businesses - and that helps those businesses create jobs.  America, we still have a lot of work to do together.  But we do have real, tangible evidence of our progress.  10.9 million new jobs.  10 million more Americans with health insurance.  Manufacturing has grown.  Our deficits have shrunk.  Our dependence on foreign oil is down.  Clean energy is up.  More young Americans are graduating from high school and earning college degrees than ever before.  Over the last four years, this country has put more people back to work than Europe, Japan, and every advanced economy combined.  The United States of America continues to outperform much of the world.  And we are going to keep it up until every American feels the gains of a growing economy where it matters most - in your own lives.  Thanks, and have a great weekend.
. It's the holidays--a season to give thanks for our many blessings. The love of family. The joy of good friends. The bonds of community. The freedom we cherish as Americans. The peace and justice we seek in the world. As we go about our days, as we gather with loved ones and friends, it's important to remember: our way of life--the freedom, prosperity and security that we enjoy as Americans--is not a gift that is simply handed to us. It has to be earned--by every generation. And no one sacrifices more to preserve our blessings than our extraordinary men and women in uniform. That's why, on Monday, I'll be visiting our troops at Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst in New Jersey--to salute them for their service and thank them for their sacrifices. Since our nation was attacked on 9/11, these men and women, like so many others in uniform, have met every mission we've asked of them. They deployed to Afghanistan and Iraq. In more than a decade of war, this 9/11 Generation has worked with the Afghan people to help them reclaim their communities and prevent terrorist attacks against our own country. Now, many of our troops are returning from Afghanistan, and on Monday, I'll be proud to help welcome them home. That's because, this month, our combat mission in Afghanistan will be over. Our war in Afghanistan is coming to a responsible end. Of course, the end of our combat mission in Afghanistan doesn't mean the end of challenges to our security.We'll continue to work with Afghans to make sure their country is stable and secure and is never again used to launch attacks against America. The troops I'll visit on Monday have been part of our mission to degrade and ultimately destroy ISIL in Iraq and Syria. They've been supporting our efforts in West Africa to fight the Ebola epidemic and save lives. Because in times of crisis and challenge, the world turns to America for leadership. And when the world calls on America, we call on the brave men and women of our armed forces to do what no one else can. So this holiday season, as we give thanks for the blessings in our own lives, let's also give thanks to our men and women in uniform who make those blessings possible. Even as some are coming home for the holidays, many more will be far from their families, who sacrifice along with them. There are so many ways we can express our gratitude to our troops, their families and our veterans--everyone can do something. To find out what you can do, just go to JoiningForces.gov. As a nation, as Americans, let's always keep striving to serve them as well as they have always served us. Thanks, have a great weekend, and God bless our troops and their families.
.  As 2014 comes to an end, we can enter the New Year with new confidence that America is making significant strides where it counts. The steps we took nearly six years ago to rescue our economy and rebuild it on a new foundation helped make 2014 the strongest year for job growth since the 1990s.  Over the past 57 months, our businesses have created nearly 11 million new jobs.  And in a hopeful sign for middle-class families, wages are on the rise again. Our investments in American manufacturing have helped fuel its best stretch of job growth since the '90s.  America is now the number one producer of oil and gas, saving drivers about 70 cents a gallon at the pump over last Christmas.  The auto industry we rescued is on track for its strongest year since 2005.  Thanks to the Affordable Care Act, about 10 million Americans have gained health insurance in the past year alone.  And since I took office, we have cut our deficits by about two-thirds. Meanwhile, around the world, America is leading.  We're leading the coalition to degrade and ultimately destroy ISIL.  We're leading the global fight to combat the Ebola outbreak in West Africa.  We're leading global efforts to address climate change, including last month's joint announcement with China.  We're turning a new page in our relationship with the Cuban people.  And in less than two weeks, after more than 13 years, our combat mission in Afghanistan will be over, and our war there will come to a responsible end.  Today, more of our troops are home for the holidays than at any time in over a decade.  Still, many of our men and women in uniform will spend this Christmas in harm's way.  And as Commander-in-Chief, I want our troops to know:  your country is united in our support and gratitude for you and your families. The six years since the financial crisis have demanded hard work and sacrifice on everyone's part.  But as a country, we have every right to be proud of what we've got to show for it.  More jobs.  More insured.  A growing economy.  Shrinking deficits.  Bustling industry.  Booming energy. Pick any metric you want - America's resurgence is real.  And we now have the chance to reverse the decades-long erosion of middle-class jobs and incomes.  We just have to invest in the things that we know will secure even faster growth in higher-paying jobs for more Americans.  We have to make sure our economy, our justice system, and our government work not only for a few, but for all of us.  And I look forward to working together with the new Congress next year on these priorities.  Sure, we'll disagree on some things.  We'll have to compromise on others.  I'll act on my own when it's necessary.  But I will never stop trying to make life better for people like you.  Because thanks to your efforts, a new foundation is laid.  A new future is ready to be written.  We have set the stage for a new American moment, and I'm going to spend every minute of my last two years making sure we seize it.  On behalf of the Obama family, I wish all of you a very Merry Christmas. Thanks, and have a wonderful holiday season.
: Merry Christmas everybody!  Now, we're not going to take much of your time because today is about family and being together with the ones you love.  And luckily for me, that means I get a little help on the weekly address, too. THE FIRST LADY:  The holidays at the White House are such a wonderful time of year.  We fill the halls with decorations, Christmas trees, and carolers - and this year, we invited more than 65,000 people to join us.  Our theme was "A Children's Winter Wonderland" - and Americans young and old had a chance to come together and celebrate the season.   THE PRESIDENT: And today, our family will join millions across the country in celebrating the birth of Jesus - the birth not just of a baby in a manger, but of a message that has changed the world: to reach out to the sick; the hungry; the troubled; and above all else, to love one another as we would be loved ourselves. THE FIRST LADY: We hope that this holiday season will be a chance for us to live out that message--to bridge our differences and lift up our families, friends, and neighbors... and to reconnect with the values that bind us together.  And as a country, that also means celebrating and honoring those who have served and sacrificed for all of us--our troops, veterans, and their families.  THE PRESIDENT: In just a few days, our combat mission in Afghanistan will be over.  Our longest war will come to a responsible end.  And that gives us an opportunity to step back and reflect upon all that these families have given us.  We're able to gather with family and friends because our troops are willing to hug theirs goodbye and step forward to serve.  After a long day, we can come home because they're willing to leave their families and deploy.  We can celebrate the holidays because they're willing to miss their own.  THE FIRST LADY: And so, as our troops continue to transition back home--back to our businesses, our schools, our congregations, and our communities--it's up to all of us to serve them as well as they have served us.   You can visit JoiningForces.gov to find out how you can honor and support the troops, veterans, and military families in your communities.  That's something we can do not only during the holiday season, but all year round. THE PRESIDENT: So Merry Christmas, everybody.  May God bless you all.  And we wish you and your family a happy and healthy 2015.
. I hope you're all having a great Fourth of July weekend. I want to begin today by saying a special word to the U.S. Men's Soccer Team, who represented America so well the past few weeks. We are so proud of you. You've got a lot of new believers. And I know there's actually a petition on the White House website to make Tim Howard the next Secretary of Defense. Chuck Hagel's got that spot right now, but if there is a vacancy, I'll think about it. It was 238 years ago that our founders came together in Philadelphia to launch our American experiment. There were farmers and businessmen, doctors and lawyers, ministers and a kite-flying scientist. Those early patriots may have come from different backgrounds and different walks of life. But they were united by a belief in a simple truth -- that we are all created equal; that we are all endowed by our Creator with certain inalienable rights; and that among these rights are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. Over the years, that belief has sustained us through war and depression; peace and prosperity. It's helped us build the strongest democracy, the greatest middle class, and the most powerful military the world has ever known. And today, there isn't a nation on Earth that wouldn't gladly trade places with the United States of America. But our success is only possible because we have never treated those self-evident truths as self-executing. Generations of Americans have marched, organized, petitioned, fought and even died to extend those rights to others; to widen the circle of opportunity for others; and to perfect this union we love so much. That's why I want to say a special thanks to the men and women of our armed forces and the families who serve with them -- especially those service members who spent this most American of holidays serving your country far from home. You keep us safe, and you keep the United States of America a shining beacon of hope for the world. And for that, you and your families deserve not only the appreciation of a grateful nation, but our enduring commitment to serve you as well as you've served us. God bless you all. And have a great weekend.
.  This week, I spent some time in Colorado and Texas, talking with people about what's going on in their lives.  One of them was Elizabeth Cooper, who'll be a college junior this fall.  She wrote to tell me something I hear often: how hard it is for middle-class families like hers to afford college.  And she shared something I know many of you feel when you wonder what's going on in Washington.  She said she feels "not significant enough to be addressed, not poor enough for people to worry [about], and not rich enough to be cared about." I ran for President to fight for Americans just like Elizabeth - people who work hard, do everything right, and just want a chance to build a decent life for themselves and their families. And after the worst economic crisis in generations, our businesses have now created nearly 10 million new jobs over the past 52 months.  The unemployment rate has fallen to its lowest point since 2008.  By almost every measure, our economy is better off than it was five years ago. But while we've created more jobs at this point of the year than any year since 1999, too many families barely earn what they did in 1999.  It's harder to pay for college, save, or retire, because people's wages and incomes have not gone up.  Nearly all the gains of the recovery are going to the very top - and aren't making a difference in your lives.  And I believe America does better when the middle class does better.  And I've laid out an opportunity agenda to create jobs, train workers, educate our kids, and make sure hard work actually pays off. These are the things we should be doing to grow the middle class and help folks work their way into the middle class.  And it's pretty uncontroversial stuff. I hope we can work together on it.  And I'm always willing to compromise if folks have other ideas or if it advances generally the interests of working Americans. But so far this year, Republicans in Congress have blocked every serious idea to strengthen the middle class.  Lifting the minimum wage, fair pay, student loan reform - they've said no to all of it.  And that's when I've acted this year to help working Americans on my own- when Congress won't act.  I've taken actions to attract new jobs, lift workers' wages, help students pay off their loans, and more.  And the Republican plan right now is not to do some of this work with me - instead, it's to sue me.  That's actually what they're spending their time on.  It's a political stunt that's going to waste months of America's time.  And by the way, they're going to pay for it using your hard-earned tax dollars. I have a better idea: do something, Congress.  Do anything to help working Americans.  Join the rest of the country. Join me, I'm looking forward to working with you. You know, on Tuesday, I met with Carolyn Reed and her husband David, who own six Silver Mine Sub shops in Colorado.  Two days later, they announced they're giving their hourly employees a raise to ten dollars and ten cents an hour.  They're not waiting for Congress.  Carolyn said, "We are happy to be a part of what I hope will be a growing voluntary trend in increased wages." Carolyn and Americans like her all across the country are happy to do their part.  Congress now needs to step up and do its part.  And next week, I'll travel to a couple of job sites to talk about how Democrats and Republicans can work together to grow the economy and protect nearly 700,000 jobs by passing a highway bill by the end of the summer. I'm here because hardworking Americans like Elizabeth and Carolyn.  That's something I'll never forget - it's something I'll never stop fighting for.  Thanks, and have a great weekend.
.  Our businesses have now added nearly 10 million new jobs over the past 52 months.  The unemployment rate is at its lowest point since September 2008 - the fastest one-year drop in nearly 30 years.  401(k)s are growing, fewer homes are underwater, and for the first time in more than a decade, business leaders around the world have declared that the world's number one place to invest isn't China; it's the United States of America - and our lead is growing. None of this is an accident.  It's thanks to the resilience and resolve of the American people that our country has recovered faster and come farther than almost any other advanced nation on Earth. But there's another trend that threatens to undermine the progress you've helped make.  Even as corporate profits are as high as ever, a small but growing group of big corporations are fleeing the country to get out of paying taxes.  They're keeping most of their business inside the United States, but they're basically renouncing their citizenship and declaring that they're based somewhere else, just to avoid paying their fair share. I want to be clear: this is only a few big corporations so far.  The vast majority of American businesses pay their taxes right here in the United States.  But when some companies cherrypick their taxes, it damages the country's finances.  It adds to the deficit.  It makes it harder to invest in the things that will keep America strong, and it sticks you with the tab for what they stash offshore.  Right now, a loophole in our tax laws makes this totally legal - and I think that's totally wrong.  You don't get to pick which rules you play by, or which tax rate you pay, and neither should these companies.  The best way to level the playing field is through tax reform that lowers the corporate tax rate, closes wasteful loopholes, and simplifies the tax code for everybody.  But stopping companies from renouncing their citizenship just to get out of paying their fair share of taxes is something that cannot wait.  That's why, in my budget earlier this year, I proposed closing this unpatriotic tax loophole for good.  Democrats in Congress have advanced proposals that would do the same thing.  A couple Republicans have indicated they want to address this too, and I hope more join us.  Rather than double-down on the top-down economics that let a fortunate few play by their own rules, let's embrace an economic patriotism that says we rise or fall together, as one nation, and as one people.  Let's reward the hard work of ordinary Americans who play by the rules.  Together, we can build up our middle class, hand down something better to our kids, and restore the American Dream for all who work for it and study for it and strive for it. Thanks, and have a great weekend.
.  My top priority as President is doing everything I can to create more jobs and more opportunities for hardworking families to get ahead.  On Friday, we learned that our economy created over 200,000 new jobs in July.  That's on top of about 300,000 new jobs in June.  We're now in a six-month streak with at least 200,000 new jobs each month.  That hasn't happened since 1997.  All told, our businesses have created 9.9 million jobs over the past 53 months.  That's the longest streak of private-sector job creation in our history.  Because of you - because of your hard work and determination - America has recovered faster and come farther than almost any other advanced country on Earth.  The economy is clearly getting stronger.  Things are clearly getting better.  And the decisions we make now can keep things moving in that direction.  That's what's at stake right now.  Making sure our economy works for every working American.  Making sure that people who work hard can get ahead.  That's why I've been pushing for common-sense ideas like rebuilding our infrastructure in a way that supports millions of good jobs and helps our businesses compete.  Raising the minimum wage.  Making it easier for working folks to pay off their student loans.  That's why I've been pushing for fair pay and paid leave.  These policies have two things in common.  All of them would help working families feel more stable and secure.  And all of them have been blocked or ignored by Republicans in Congress. That's why my administration keeps taking what actions we can on our own to help working families - because Congress is doing so little for working families.  House Republicans actually got together this week and voted to sue me for taking actions on my own.  And then they left town for the month without settling a bunch of unfinished business that matters to working families across America. The bottom line is this - we've come a long way these past five and a half years.  Our challenges are nowhere near as daunting as they were back then.  But imagine how much farther along our economy would be - how much stronger our country would be - if Congress would do its job.  I'll never stop trying to work with both parties to get things moving faster for the middle class.  And I could use your help.  If you see your Member of Congress around home this month, tell him or her what's on your mind.  Ask them why they haven't passed bills to raise the minimum wage or help with student loans or enact fair pay for women. And when they return from vacation next month, instead of trying to pass partisan bills on party lines, hopefully we can come together with the sense of common purpose that you expect.  And in the meantime, I will never stop doing whatever I can, whenever I can, not only to make sure that our economy succeeds, but that people like you succeed.  Thanks, and have a great weekend.
.  First, I directed our military to take action to protect our American diplomats and military advisors serving in the city of Erbil.  In recent days, terrorist forces neared the city.  Thursday night, I made it clear that if they attempted to advance further, our military would respond with targeted strikes.  That's what we've done.  And, if necessary, that's what we will continue to do.  We have Americans serving across Iraq, including our embassy in Baghdad, and we'll do whatever is needed to protect our people. Second, we've begun a humanitarian effort to help those Iraqi civilians trapped on that mountain. The terrorists that have taken over parts of Iraq have been especially brutal to religious minorities--rounding up families, executing men, enslaving women, and threatening the systematic destruction of an entire religious community, which would be genocide.  The thousands--perhaps tens of thousands--of Iraqi men, women and children who fled to that mountain were starving and dying of thirst.  The food and water we airdropped will help them survive.  I've also approved targeted American airstrikes to help Iraqi forces break the siege and rescue these families.  Earlier this week, one anguished Iraqi in this area cried to the world, "There is no one coming to help."  Today, America is helping.  The United States cannot and should not intervene every time there's a crisis in the world.  But when there's a situation like the one on this mountain--when countless innocent people are facing a massacre, and when we have the ability to help prevent it--the United States can't just look away. That's not who we are. We're Americans.  We act.  We lead.  And that's what we're going to do on that mountain.  As one American who wrote to me yesterday said, "it is the right thing to do."   As Commander-in-Chief, I will not allow the United States to be dragged into fighting another war in Iraq.  American combat troops will not be returning to fight in Iraq, because there's no American military solution to the larger crisis there.  What we will do is continue our broader strategy in Iraq.  We will protect our citizens.  We will work with the international community to address this humanitarian crisis.  We'll help prevent these terrorists from having a permanent safe haven from which to attack America.  And we'll continue to urge Iraqi communities to reconcile, come together and fight back against these terrorists so the people of Iraq have the opportunity for a better future--the opportunity for which so many Americans gave their lives in Iraq in a long and hard war. Today, we salute our brave men and women in uniform--especially our courageous pilots and crews over Iraq.  They're protecting our fellow Americans.  They're helping save the lives of innocent people on a mountain--people who today know that there's a country called America that cares for them, too, and that is willing to stand up--not just for our own security, but for the dignity and freedom that belongs to all people.
. Over the next couple weeks, schools all across the country will be opening their doors. Students will suit up for fall sports, marching band, and the school play; moms and dads will snap those first-day-of-school pictures -- and that includes me and Michelle.     And so today, I want to talk directly with students and parents about one of the most important things any of you can do this year -- and that's to begin preparing yourself for an education beyond high school. We know that in today's economy, whether you go to a four-year college, a community college, or a professional training program, some higher education is the surest ticket to the middle class. The typical American with a bachelor's degree or higher earns over $28,000 more per year than someone with just a high school diploma. And they're also much more likely to have a job in the first place - the unemployment rate for those with a bachelor's degree is less than one-third of the rate for those without a high school diploma. But for too many families across the country, paying for higher education is a constant struggle. Earlier this year, a young woman named Elizabeth Cooper wrote to tell me how hard it is for middle-class families like hers to afford college. As she said, she feels "not significant enough to be addressed, not poor enough for people to worry [about], and not rich enough to be cared about." Michelle and I know the feeling - we only finished paying off our student loans ten years ago. And so as President, I'm working to make sure young people like Elizabeth can go to college without racking up mountains of debt. We reformed a student loan system so that more money goes to students instead of big banks. We expanded grants and college tax credits for students and families. We took action to offer millions of students a chance to cap their student loan payments at 10% of their income. And Congress should pass a bill to let students refinance their loans at today's lower interest rates, just like their parents can refinance their mortgage. But as long as college costs keep rising, we can't just keep throwing money at the problem -- colleges have to do their part to bring down costs as well. That's why we proposed a plan to tie federal financial aid to a college's performance, and create a new college scorecard so that students and parents can see which schools provide the biggest bang for your buck. We launched a new $75 million challenge to inspire colleges to reduce costs and raise graduation rates. And in January, more than 100 college presidents and nonprofit leaders came to the White House and made commitments to increase opportunities for underserved students. Since then, we've met with even more leaders who want to create new community-based partnerships and support school counselors. And this week, my Secretary of Education, Arne Duncan, announced a series of commitments to support students who need a little extra academic help getting through college. This is a challenge I take personally. And to all you young people, now that you're heading back to school, your education is something you have to take personally, also. It's up to you to push yourself; to take hard classes and read challenging books. Science shows that when you struggle to solve a problem or make a new argument, you're actually forming new connections in your brain. So when you're thinking hard, you're getting smarter. Which means this year, challenge yourself to reach higher. And set your sights on college in the years ahead. Your country is counting on you. And don't forget to have some fun along the way, too. Thanks everybody. Good luck on the year ahead.
.  And I've made it clear that those who threaten the United States will find no safe haven.  Thanks to our military and counterterrorism professionals, we took out Osama bin Laden, much of al Qaeda's leadership in Afghanistan and Pakistan, and leaders of al Qaeda affiliates in Yemen and Somalia.  We've prevented terrorist attacks, saved American lives and made our homeland more secure.  Today, the terrorist threat is more diffuse, from al Qaeda affiliates and other extremists--like ISIL in Syria and Iraq.  As I said this week, our intelligence community has not yet detected specific ISIL plots against our homeland.  But its leaders have repeatedly threatened the United States.  And, if left unchecked, these terrorists could pose a growing threat beyond the Middle East, including to the United States.  So we're staying vigilant.  And we're moving ahead with our strategy to degrade and ultimately destroy this terrorist organization. To meet a threat like this, we have to be smart.  We have to use our power wisely.  And we have to avoid the mistakes of the past.  American military power is unmatched, but this can't be America's fight alone.  And the best way to defeat a group like ISIL isn't by sending large numbers of American combat forces to wage a ground war in the heart of the Middle East.  That wouldn't serve our interests.  In fact, it would only risk fueling extremism even more.  What's needed now is a targeted, relentless counterterrorism campaign against ISIL that combines American air power, contributions from allies and partners, and more support to forces that are fighting these terrorists on the ground.  And that's exactly what we're doing.      We're moving ahead with our campaign of airstrikes against these terrorists, and we're prepared to take action against ISIL in Syria as well.  The additional American forces I've ordered to Iraq will help Iraqi and Kurdish forces with the training, intelligence and equipment they need to take the fight to these terrorists on the ground.  We're working with Congress to expand our efforts to train and equip the Syrian opposition.  We'll continue to strengthen our defenses here at home.  And we'll keep providing the humanitarian relief to help Iraqi civilians who have been driven from their homes and who remain in extreme danger.  Because we're leading the right way, more nations are joining our coalition.  This week, Arab nations agreed to strengthen their support for the new Iraqi government and to do their part in the fight against ISIL, including aspects of the military campaign.  Saudi Arabia will join the effort to help train and equip moderate Syrian opposition forces.  And retired Marine general John Allen--who during the Iraq war worked with Sunnis in Iraq as they fought to reclaim their communities from terrorists--will serve as our special envoy to help build and coordinate our growing coalition. Today, every American can be proud of our men and women in uniform who are serving in this effort.  When our airstrikes helped break the siege of the Iraqi town of Amerli [Ah-MER-lee], one Kurdish fighter on the ground said, "It would have been absolutely impossible without the American planes."  One resident of that city said--"thank you, America." Today we're showing the world the best of American leadership.  We will protect our people.  We will stand with partners who defend their countries and rally other nations to meet a common threat.  And here at home--thirteen years after our country was attacked--we continue to stand tall and proud.  Because we're Americans.  We don't give in to fear.  We carry on.  And we will never waver in the defense of the country we love.
.  As I've said before, our intelligence community has not yet detected specific plots from these terrorists against America.  Right now, they pose a threat to the people of Iraq, Syria, and the broader Middle East.  But its leaders have threatened America and our allies.  And if left unchecked, they could pose a growing threat to the United States. So, last month, I gave the order for our military to begin taking targeted action against ISIL.  Since then, American pilots have flown more than 170 airstrikes against these terrorists in Iraq.  And France has now joined us in these airstrikes. Going forward, we won't hesitate to take action against these terrorists in Iraq or in Syria.  But this is not America's fight alone.  I won't commit our troops to fighting another ground war in Iraq, or in Syria.  It's more effective to use our capabilities to help partners on the ground secure their own country's futures. We will use our air power. We will train and equip our partners.  We will advise and we will assist.   And we'll lead a broad coalition of nations who have a stake in this fight.  This isn't America vs. ISIL.  This is the people of that region vs. ISIL.  It's the world vs ISIL. We've been working to secure bipartisan support for this strategy here at home, because I believe that we are strongest as a nation when the President and Congress work together.  We've been consulting closely with Congress.  And last week, Secretary of State Kerry, Secretary of Defense Hagel, and military leaders worked to gain their support for our strategy.  A majority of Democrats and a majority of Republicans in both the House and the Senate have now approved a first, key part of our strategy by wide margins.  They've given our troops the authority they need to train Syrian opposition fighters so that they can fight ISIL in Syria.  Those votes sent a powerful signal to the world: Americans are united in confronting this danger.  And I hope Congress continues to make sure our troops get what they need to get the job done. Meanwhile, because we're leading the right way, more nations are joining our coalition.  Over 40 countries have offered to help the broad campaign against ISIL so far - from training and equipment, to humanitarian relief, to flying combat missions.  And this week, at the United Nations, I'll continue to rally the world against this threat. This is an effort that America has the unique ability to lead.  When the world is threatened; when the world needs help; it calls on America. And we call on our troops. Whether it's to degrade and ultimately destroy a group of terrorists, or to contain and combat a threat like the Ebola epidemic in Africa; we ask a lot of our troops.  But while our politics may be divided at times, the American people stand united around supporting our troops and their families.  This is a moment of American leadership.  Thanks to them, it is a moment we will meet.  Thank you.
.  Whether you're firing up the grill, fired up for some college football, or filling up the car for one last summer roadtrip - Happy Labor Day weekend. We set aside Labor Day to honor the working men and women of America.  And this Labor Day, we've got more to celebrate.  Over the past 53 months, our businesses have added nearly 10 million new jobs.  Last month, for the first time since 1997, we created more than 200,000 jobs for six straight months.  And for the first time in over a decade, business leaders worldwide have declared, two years running, that the number one place to invest isn't China - it's America. So there are reasons to be optimistic about where we're headed.  And the decisions we make now will determine whether or not we accelerate this progress - whether economic gains flow to a few at the top, or whether a growing economy fuels rising incomes and a thriving middle class. Think about it this Labor Day.  The things we often take for granted - Social Security and Medicare, workplace safety laws and the right to organize for better pay and benefits, even weekends - we didn't always have these things.  Workers and the unions who get their back had to fight for them.  And those fights built a stronger middle class. To build a stronger middle class in today's changing economy, we've got to keep fighting.  We've got to fight for the right to affordable health insurance for everybody.  The right to fair pay, family leave, and workplace flexibility.  The right to a fair living wage.  Let me focus on that last one for a minute.  In America, no one who works full-time should ever have to raise a family in poverty.  A hard day's work deserves a fair day's pay.  And raising the minimum wage would be one of the best ways to give a boost to working families.  It would help around 28 million Americans from all walks of life pay the bills, provide for their kids, and spend that money at local businesses.  And that grows the economy for everyone. The bottom line is, America deserves a raise.  But until we've got a Congress that cares about raising working folks' wages, it's up to the rest of us to make it happen.  And in the year and a half since I first asked Congress to raise the minimum wage, Americans of all walks of life are doing just that. Thirteen states and D.C. have done their part by raising their minimum wages.  Four more states have minimum wage initiatives on the ballot this November.  And the states where the minimum wage has gone up this year have experienced higher job growth than the states that haven't.  Business leaders at companies like The Gap are doing their part.  They're raising base wages for tens of thousands of workers because they know it's good for business. Mayors across the country are doing their part.  Mayor Emanuel in Chicago and Mayor Garcetti in L.A. are working to lift their cities' wages over time to at least thirteen dollars an hour. I've tried to do my part by requiring companies that get contracts with the federal government to pay their workers a fair wage of ten dollars and ten cents an hour.  And earlier this month, the president of Kentucky State University set a great example by giving himself a $90,000 pay cut, so that he could give raises to his lowest-paid employees.  His sacrifice will give more of his workers and their families a little extra money to help make ends meet.  That's how America built the greatest middle class the world has ever known.  Not by making sure a fortunate few at the top are doing well, but by making sure that everyone who's willing to work hard and play by the rules can get ahead.  That's the bedrock this country is built on.  Hard work.  Responsibility.  Sacrifice.  And looking out for one another as one united American family. Let's keep that in mind this Labor Day, and every day.  Have a great weekend, everybody.
. Nearly six years after the worst financial crisis of our lifetimes, our businesses have added nearly 10 million new jobs over the past 53 months. That's the longest streak of private-sector job creation in our history. And we're in a six-month streak with our economy creating at least 200,000 new jobs each month -- the first time that's happened since 1997. Thanks to the decisions we made to rescue and rebuild our economy, and your hard work and resilience, America is leading again. Areas like manufacturing, energy, technology, and autos are all booming. And here's the thing: we're selling more goods Made in America to the rest of the world than ever before. American exports are at an all-time high. Over the past five years, we've worked hard to open new markets for our businesses, and to help them compete on a level playing field in those markets. And we've broken records for exports four years running. Last year, our exports supported more than 11 million American jobs - about 1.6 million more than when I took office. They're good jobs that typically pay about 15% more than the national average. And more small businesses are selling their goods abroad than ever before -- nearly 300,000 last year alone. We should be doing everything we can to accelerate this progress, not stall it. One place to start is by supporting something called the U.S. Export-Import Bank. Its sole mission is to create American jobs. That's it. It helps many American entrepreneurs take that next step and take their small business global. But next month, its charter will expire -- unless Members of Congress do their job and reauthorize it. Now, past Congresses have done this 16 times, always with support from both parties. Republican and Democratic Presidents have supported the bank, too. This time around shouldn't be any different. Because the bank works. It's independent. It pays for itself. But if Congress fails to act, thousands of businesses, large and small, that sell their products abroad will take a completely unnecessary hit. Small business owners have had to overcome a lot these past several years. We all saw local businesses close their doors during the crisis. And in the past few years, we've seen more and more open their doors and do their part to help lead America's comeback. At the very least, they deserve a Congress that doesn't stand in the way of their success. Your members of Congress are home this month. If you're a small business owner or employee of a large business that depends on financing to tackle new markets and create new jobs, tell them to quit treating your business like it's expendable, and start treating it for what it is: vital to America's success. Tell them to do their jobs -- keep America's exports growing, and keep America's recovery going. Thanks, and have a great weekend.
.  I'm at Millennium Steel in Princeton, Indiana, to have a town hall with workers on National Manufacturing Day.  Because in many ways, manufacturing is the quintessential middle-class job.  And after a decade of losing jobs, American manufacturing is once again adding them - more than 700,000 over the past four and a half years. In fact, it's been a bright spot as we keep fighting to recover from the great recession.  Last month, our businesses added 236,000 new jobs.  The unemployment rate fell to under six percent for the first time in more than six years.  Over the past 55 months, our businesses have added 10.3 million new jobs.  That's the longest uninterrupted stretch of private sector job creation in our history.  And we're on pace to make 2014 the strongest year of job growth since the 1990s. This progress has been hard, but it has been steady, and it is real.  It is a direct result of the American people's drive and determination, and decisions made by my administration. During the last decade, people thought the decline in American manufacturing was inevitable.  But we chose to invest in American auto industry and American workers. And today, an auto industry that was flatlining six years ago is building and selling new cars at the fastest pace in eight years.  American manufacturing is growing almost twice as fast as the rest of the economy, with new factories opening their doors at the fastest pace in decades.  That's progress we can be proud of. What's also true is that too many families still work too many hours with too little to show for it.  And the much longer and profound erosion of middle-class jobs and incomes isn't something we're going to reverse overnight.  But there are ideas we should be putting into place that would grow jobs and wages faster right now.  And one of the best would be to raise the minimum wage. We've actually begun to see some modest wage growth in recent months.  But most folks still haven't seen a raise in over a decade.  It's time to stop punishing some of the hardest-working Americans.  It's time to raise the minimum wage.  It would put more money in workers' pockets.  It would help 28 million Americans.  Recent surveys show that a majority of small business owners support a gradual increase to ten dollars and ten cents an hour.  The folks who keep blocking a minimum wage increase are running out of excuses.  Let's give America a raise.  Let's do this - because it would make our economy stronger, and make sure that growth is shared.  Rather than just reading about our recovery in a headline, more people will feel it in their own lives.  And that's when America does best.  We do better when the middle class does better, and when more Americans have their way to climb into the middle class.  And that's what drives me every single day.  Thanks, and have a great weekend.
. American leadership is the one constant in an uncertain world. That was true this week, as we mobilized the world to confront some of our most urgent challenges. America is leading the world in the fight to degrade and ultimately destroy the terrorist group known as ISIL. On Monday, our brave men and women in uniform began air strikes against ISIL targets in Syria. And they weren't alone. I made it clear that America would act as part of a broad coalition, and we were joined in this action by friends and partners, including Arab nations. At the United Nations in New York, I worked to build more support for this coalition; to cut off terrorist financing; and to stop the flow of foreign fighters into and out of that region. And in my address to the UN, I challenged the world -- especially Muslim communities - to reject the ideology of violent extremism, and to do more to tap the extraordinary potential of their young people. America is leading the effort to rally the world against Russian aggression in Ukraine. Along with our allies, we will support the people of Ukraine as they develop their democracy and economy. And this week, I called upon even more nations to join us on the right side of history. America is leading the fight to contain and combat the Ebola epidemic in West Africa. We're deploying our doctors and scientists -- supported by our military -- to help corral the outbreak and pursue new treatments. From the United Kingdom and Germany to France and Senegal, other nations are stepping up their efforts, too, sending money, supplies, and personnel. And we will continue to rally other countries to join us in making concrete commitments to fight this disease, and enhance global health security for the long-term. America is engaging more partners and allies than ever to confront the growing threat of climate change before it's too late. We're doing our part, and helping developing nations do theirs. At home, we've invested in clean energy, cut carbon pollution, and created new jobs in the process. Abroad, our climate assistance now reaches more than 120 nations. And on Tuesday, I called on every nation - developed and developing alike -- to join us in this effort for the sake of future generations. The people of the world look to us to lead. And we welcome that responsibility. We are heirs to a proud legacy of freedom. And as we showed the world this week, we are prepared to do what is necessary to secure that legacy for generations to come. Thanks, and have a great weekend.
.  For the first time in more than 6 years, the unemployment rate is below 6%.  Over the past four and a half years, our businesses have created more than 10 million new jobs.  That's the longest uninterrupted stretch of private sector job creation in our history.  But while our businesses are creating jobs at the fastest pace since the '90s, the typical family hasn't seen a raise since the '90s also.  Folks are feeling as squeezed as ever.  That's why I'm going to keep pushing policies that will create more jobs faster and raise wages faster - policies like rebuilding our infrastructure, making sure women are paid fairly, and making it easier for young people to pay off their student loans. But one of the simplest and fastest ways to start helping folks get ahead is by raising the minimum wage. Ask yourself: could you live on $14,500 a year?  That's what someone working full-time on the minimum wage makes.  If they're raising kids, that's below the poverty line.  And that's not right.  A hard day's work deserves a fair day's pay. Right now, a worker on the federal minimum wage earns $7.25 an hour.  It's time to raise that to $10.10 an hour. Raising the federal minimum wage to ten dollars and ten cents an hour, or ten-ten, would benefit 28 million American workers.  28 million.  And these aren't just high schoolers on their first job.  The average worker who would benefit is 35 years old.  Most low-wage workers are women.  And that extra money would help them pay the bills and provide for their families.  It also means they'll have more money to spend at local businesses - which grows the economy for everyone. But Congress hasn't voted to raise the minimum wage in seven years.  Seven years.  And when it got a vote earlier this year, Republicans flat-out voted "no."  That's why, since the first time I asked Congress to give America a raise, 13 states, 21 cities and D.C. have gone around Congress to raise their workers' wages.  Five more states have minimum wage initiatives on the ballot next month.  More companies are choosing to raise their workers' wages.  A recent survey shows that a majority of small business owners support a gradual increase to ten-ten an hour, too.  And I've done what I can on my own by requiring federal contractors to pay their workers at least ten-ten an hour.  On Friday, a coalition of citizens - including business leaders, working moms, labor unions, and more than 65 mayors - told Republicans in Congress to stop blocking a raise for millions of hard-working Americans. Because we believe that in America, nobody who works full-time should ever have to raise a family in poverty.  And I'm going to keep up this fight until we win.  Because America deserves a raise right now.  And America should forever be a place where your hard work is rewarded.  Thanks, and have a great weekend.
-directly and clearly-about Ebola: what we're doing about it, and what you need to know.  Because meeting a public health challenge like this isn't just a job for government.  All of us-citizens, leaders, the media-have a responsibility and a role to play.  This is a serious disease, but we can't give in to hysteria or fear-because that only makes it harder to get people the accurate information they need.  We have to be guided by the science.  We have to remember the basic facts. First, what we're seeing now is not an "outbreak" or an "epidemic" of Ebola in America.  We're a nation of more than 300 million people.  To date, we've seen three cases of Ebola diagnosed here-the man who contracted the disease in Liberia, came here and sadly died; the two courageous nurses who were infected while they were treating him.  Our thoughts and our prayers are with them, and we're doing everything we can to give them the best care possible.  Now, even one infection is too many.  At the same time, we have to keep this in perspective.  As our public health experts point out, every year thousands of Americans die from the flu. Second, Ebola is actually a difficult disease to catch.  It's not transmitted through the air like the flu.  You cannot get it from just riding on a plane or a bus.  The only way that a person can contract the disease is by coming into direct contact with the bodily fluids of somebody who is already showing symptoms.  I've met and hugged some of the doctors and nurses who've treated Ebola patients.  I've met with an Ebola patient who recovered, right in the Oval Office.  And I'm fine. Third, we know how to fight this disease.  We know the protocols.  And we know that when they're followed, they work.  So far, five Americans who got infected with Ebola in West Africa have been brought back to the United States-and all five have been treated safely, without infecting healthcare workers.  And this week, at my direction, we're stepping up our efforts.  Additional CDC personnel are on the scene in Dallas and Cleveland.  We're working quickly to track and monitor anyone who may have been in close contact with someone showing symptoms.  We're sharing lessons learned so other hospitals don't repeat the mistakes that happened in Dallas.  The CDC's new Ebola rapid response teams will deploy quickly to help hospitals implement the right protocols.  New screening measures are now in place at airports that receive nearly all passengers arriving from Liberia, Guinea and Sierra Leone.  And we'll continue to constantly review our measures, and update them as needed, to make sure we're doing everything we can to keep Americans safe. Finally, we can't just cut ourselves off from West Africa, where this disease is raging.  Our medical experts tell us that the best way to stop this disease is to stop it at its source-before it spreads even wider and becomes even more difficult to contain.  Trying to seal off an entire region of the world-if that were even possible-could actually make the situation worse.  It would make it harder to move health workers and supplies back and forth.  Experience shows that it could also cause people in the affected region to change their travel, to evade screening, and make the disease even harder to track. So the United States will continue to help lead the global response in West Africa.  Because if we want to protect Americans from Ebola here at home, we have to end it over there.  And as our civilian and military personnel serve in the region, their safety and health will remain a top priority. As I've said before, fighting this disease will take time.  Before this is over, we may see more isolated cases here in America.  But we know how to wage this fight.  And if we take the steps that are necessary, if we're guided by the science-the facts, not fear-then I am absolutely confident that we can prevent a serious outbreak here in the United States, and we can continue to lead the world in this urgent effort.
.  In Dallas, dozens of family, friends and others who had been in close contact with the first patient, Mr. Duncan, were declared free of Ebola--a reminder that this disease is actually very hard to catch.  Across Dallas, others being monitored--including health care workers who were most at risk--were also declared Ebola-free. Two Americans--patients in Georgia and Nebraska who contracted the disease in West Africa--recovered and were released from the hospital.  The first of the two Dallas nurses who were diagnosed--Nina Pham--was declared Ebola free, and yesterday I was proud to welcome her to the Oval Office and give her a big hug.  The other nurse--Amber Vinson--continues to improve as well.  And in Africa, the countries of Senegal and Nigeria were declared free of Ebola--a reminder that this disease can be contained and defeated. In New York City, medical personnel moved quickly to isolate and care for the patient there--a doctor who recently returned from West Africa.  The city and state of New York have strong public health systems, and they've been preparing for this possibility.  Because of the steps we've taken in recent weeks, our CDC experts were already at the hospital, helping staff prepare for this kind of situation.  Before the patient was even diagnosed, we deployed one of our new CDC rapid response teams. And I've assured Governor Cuomo and Mayor de Blasio that they'll have all the federal support they need as they go forward.  More broadly, this week we continued to step up our efforts across the country.  New CDC guidelines and outreach is helping hospitals improve training and protect their health care workers.  The Defense Department's new team of doctors, nurses and trainers will respond quickly if called upon to help.  New travel measures are now directing all travelers from the three affected countries in West Africa into five U.S. airports where we're conducting additional screening.  Starting this week, these travelers will be required to report their temperatures and any symptoms on a daily basis--for 21 days until we're confident they don't have Ebola.  Here at the White House, my new Ebola response coordinator is working to ensure a seamless response across the federal government.  And we have been examining the protocols for protecting our brave health care workers, and, guided by the science, we'll continue to work with state and local officials to take the necessary steps to ensure the safety and health of the American people. In closing, I want to leave you with some basic facts.  First, you cannot get Ebola easily.  You can't get it through casual contact with someone.  Remember, down in Dallas, even Mr. Duncan's family--who lived with him and helped care for him--even they did not get Ebola.  The only way you can get this disease is by coming into direct contact with the bodily fluids of someone with symptoms.  That's the science.  Those are the facts. Sadly, Mr. Duncan did not survive, and we continue to keep his family in our prayers.  At the same time, it's important to remember that of the seven Americans treated so far for Ebola--the five who contracted it in West Africa, plus the two nurses from Dallas--all seven have survived.  Let me say that again--seven Americans treated; all seven survived.  I've had two of them in the Oval Office.  And now we're focused on making sure the patient in New York receives the best care as well.  Here's the bottom line.  Patients can beat this disease.  And we can beat this disease.  But we have to stay vigilant.  We have to work together at every level--federal, state and local.  And we have to keep leading the global response, because the best way to stop this disease, the best way to keep Americans safe, is to stop it at its source--in West Africa. And we have to be guided by the science--we have to be guided by the facts, not fear.  Yesterday, New Yorkers showed us the way. They did what they do every day--jumping on buses, riding the subway, crowding into elevators, heading into work, gathering in parks.  That spirit--that determination to carry on--is part of what makes New York one of the great cities in the world.  And that's the spirit all of us can draw upon, as Americans, as we meet this challenge together.
.  On Friday, I had a discussion with working women in Rhode Island about the economic challenges they face in their own lives -- challenges shared by many of you. Thanks to the work we've all put in, our economy has come a long way these past six years. Over the past 55 months, our businesses have added 10.3 million new jobs. For the first time in six years, the unemployment rate is below 6 percent. And on Thursday, we learned that over the past six months, our economy has grown at its fastest pace since 2003. But the gains of a growing economy aren't yet felt by everyone. So we've got to harness this momentum, and make the right choices so that everyone who works hard can get ahead. In recent weeks, I've talked about these choices, from raising the minimum wage to creating new jobs in construction and manufacturing. Today, I want to focus on what I discussed with those women -- the choices we need to make to help more women get ahead in today's economy. Right now, women make up almost half of our workers. More women are their family's main breadwinner than ever before. So the simple truth is, when women succeed, America succeeds. And we should be choosing policies that benefit women -- because that benefits all of us. Women deserve fair pay. Even though it's 2014, there are women still earning less than men for doing the same work. We don't have second-class citizens in this country -- we shouldn't in the workplace, either. So let's make sure women earn equal pay for equal work, and have a fair shot at success. Women deserve to be able to take time off to care for a new baby, an ailing parent, or take a sick day for themselves without running into hardship. So let's make sure all Americans have access to paid family leave. Pregnant workers deserve to be treated fairly. Even today, women can be fired for taking too many bathroom breaks, or forced on unpaid leave just for being pregnant. That's wrong -- and we have to choose policies that ensure pregnant workers are treated with dignity and respect. New parents deserve quality, affordable childcare. There's nothing like the peace of mind that comes with knowing that your kids are safe while you're at work. And the benefits that children get out of early enrichment can pay off for a lifetime. But in many states, sending your kid to daycare costs more than sending them to a public university. So let's start demanding Pre-K for our kids. And when most low-wage workers are women, but Congress hasn't passed a minimum wage increase in seven years, it's long past time that women deserve a raise. About 28 million workers would benefit from an increase in the minimum wage to ten dollars and ten cents an hour. And more than half of those workers are women. The local businesses where these workers spend their money would benefit, too. So let's do this -- let's give America a raise. All of these policies are common sense. All of them are within our reach. We've just got to speak up and choose them. Because they'll build a stronger America for all of us. Thanks, and have a great weekend.
.  This weekend, I depart for Asia to advance American leadership and promote American jobs in a dynamic region that will be critical to our security and prosperity in the century ahead.  The democracies, progress and growth we see across the Asia Pacific would have been impossible without America's enduring commitment to that region - especially the service of generations of Americans in uniform.  As we approach Veterans' Day, we honor them - and all those who've served to keep us free and strong.   We salute that Greatest Generation who freed a continent from fascism and fought across Pacific Islands to preserve our way of life.  We pay tribute to Americans who defended the people of South Korea, soldiered through the brutal battles of Vietnam, stood up to a tyrant in Desert Storm and stopped ethnic cleansing in the Balkans.   And we celebrate our newest heroes from the 9/11 Generation - our veterans from Iraq and Afghanistan.  For more than 13 years, we have been at war in Afghanistan.  Next month, our combat mission will be over, and America's longest war will come to a responsible end.   But the end of a war is just the beginning of our obligations to those who serve in our name.  These men and women will be proud veterans for decades to come, and our service to them has only just begun.  So as we welcome our newest veterans home, let's honor them by giving them the thanks and respect they deserve.  And let's make sure we're there for their families and children, too - because they've also made great sacrifices for America. Let's honor our veterans by making sure they get the care and benefits they've earned.  That means health care that's there for them when they need it.  It means continuing to reduce the disability claims backlog.  And it means giving our wounded warriors all the care and support they need to heal, including mental health care for those with post-traumatic stress or traumatic brain injury.  Some of the most moving moments I've experienced as Commander in Chief have been with our wounded warriors.  Some have to learn how to walk again, talk again, write their names again.  But no matter how hard it is, they never give up.  They never quit.  And we can't ever quit on them. Let's honor our veterans by making sure they get their shot at the American Dream that they risked their lives to defend - by helping them find jobs worthy of their skills and talents, and making sure the Post-9/11 GI Bill stays strong so more veterans can earn a college education.  When our veterans have the opportunity to succeed, our whole nation is stronger.  And let's work together to end the tragedy of homelessness among veterans once and for all - because anyone who has defended America deserves to live in dignity in America.   Finally, let's honor our veterans by remembering that this isn't just a job for government.  It's a job for every American.  We're all keepers of that sacred trust that says, if you put on a uniform and risk your life to keep us safe, we'll do our part for you.  We'll make sure you and your family get the support you need.  We'l have your backs - just like you had ours.   So this Veterans' Day, and every day, let's make sure all our veterans know how much we appreciate them.  If you see a veteran, go on up and shake their hand.  Look them in the eye.  Say those words that every veteran deserves to hear:  "Welcome home.  Thank you.  We need you more than ever to help us stay strong and free."
.  Over the past year, more than 10 million Americans have gained the financial security and peace of mind that comes with health insurance.  More than seven million people enrolled in affordable coverage by visiting HealthCare.gov, or going to the marketplace in their state.  On average, they're paying just $82 a month for coverage.  For a lot of people, that's less than a cell phone bill or a cable bill.  Insurance companies can no longer deny you coverage just because you have a preexisting condition, and they now have to cover free preventive care like checkups and mammograms.  If you missed your chance to get covered last year, here's the good news.  Starting November 15th, today, you can go online or call 1-800-318-2596 and get covered for 2015.  And we've spent the last year improving and upgrading HealthCare.gov, to make it faster and easier to use.  If you already buy insurance through the online marketplace, now is the time to take a look at some new options for next year.  You might be able to save more money, or find a plan that fits your family's needs even better than the one you've got now.  If you haven't signed up for insurance yet, this is your chance.  Odds are, you'll qualify for tax credits to help you afford it.  But this window won't stay open forever.  You only have three months to shop for plans, so it's worth starting right away.  And it might make a big difference for your family's bottom line. Last year, I got an email from a woman named Amy Williams, in Augusta, Georgia.  She and her husband are self-employed in the trucking business.  For years, they paid about $1,200 a month for their health insurance.  Then they checked out HealthCare.gov.  They found a plan with coverage they liked, and it was way less expensive.  She says that they've saved around $13,000 on their premiums this year alone.  Stories like Amy's are why we fought so hard to pass the Affordable Care Act.  To help more families breathe a little easier.  In part because this law is working, health care prices have grown at their slowest rate in nearly 50 years.  And this year, insurance premiums for families who are covered through an employer grew at a rate tied for the lowest on record.  So spread the word.  Tell your friends and family members to get covered.  Talk to folks in your church or your classroom.  Tell them to take a few minutes to check out Healthcare.gov, CuidadoDeSalud.gov, or call 1-800-318-2596 - it can make a big difference in their lives.  Let them know that it's easy, it's affordable, and that they have just three months, starting today, November 15th, to sign up.  Together, we can make sure that even more of America gets covered in the year ahead. Thanks, and have a great weekend.
.  Every day, we get thousands of letters and emails at the White House from Americans across the country - and every night, I read ten of them.  They tell me about their hopes and their worries, their hardships and successes.  They're the Americans I'm working for every day - and this year, several of these letter writers will join me at the Capitol when I deliver my annual State of the Union Address on Tuesday night. Carolyn Reed wrote to me from Colorado to tell me she was able to expand her business, thanks to a loan from the Small Business Administration.  Today, she and her husband own seven Silver Mine Sub Shops - and last year, they raised wages for all their hourly employees.  Victor Fugate, from Butler, Missouri, wrote to tell me that he was unemployed for a while a few years ago, but today he's earned his degree and found a full-time job.  Victor said that he and his wife were able to afford their student loans because our country offered millions of Americans the chance to cap their monthly payments as a percentage of their income - and, because of the Affordable Care Act, they now have the security and peace of mind of affordable health insurance. While serving in Afghanistan, Jason Gibson was gravely wounded--he lost both his legs.  When I first met him in the hospital, he was just beginning his long, difficult road to recovery.  But last year, Sergeant Gibson wrote to tell me that with the help of our extraordinary doctors and nurses, he's making extraordinary progress.  He just moved into a new home, and he and his wife just had a baby girl.  Stories like these give us reason to start the new year with confidence.  2014 was the fastest year for job growth since the 1990s.  Unemployment fell faster than any year since 1984.  Our combat mission in Afghanistan has come to a responsible end, and more of our heroes are coming home.  America's resurgence is real.  Our job now is to make sure that every American feels that they're a part of our country's comeback.  That's what I'll focus on in my State of the Union - how to build on our momentum, with rising wages, growing incomes, and a stronger middle class.  And I'll call on this new Congress to join me in putting aside the political games and finding areas where we agree so we can deliver for the American people. The last six years have demanded resilience and sacrifice from all of us.  All of us have a right to be proud of the progress America has made.  And I hope you'll tune in on Tuesday to hear about the steps we can take to build on this progress, and to seize this moment together. Thanks everybody, and have a great weekend.
.  This week, in my State of the Union Address, I talked about what we can do to make sure middle-class economics helps more Americans get ahead in the new economy.  See, after some tough years, and thanks to some tough decisions we made, our economy is creating jobs at the fastest pace since 1999.  Our deficits are shrinking.  Our energy production is booming.  Our troops are coming home.  Thanks to the hard work and resilience of Americans like you, we've risen from recession freer to write our own future than any other nation on Earth.  Now we have to choose what we want that future to look like.  Will we accept an economy where only a few of us do spectacularly well?  Or will we commit ourselves to an economy that generates rising incomes and rising chances for everyone who makes the effort? I believe the choice is clear.  Today, thanks to a growing economy, the recovery is touching more and more lives.  Wages are finally starting to rise again.  Let's keep that going - let's do more to restore the link between hard work and growing opportunity for every American.  That's what middle-class economics is - the idea that this country does best when everyone gets their fair shot, everyone does their fair share, and everyone plays by the same set of rules.  Middle-class economics means helping workers feel more secure in a world of constant change - making it easier to afford childcare, college, paid leave, health care, a home, and retirement.  Middle-class economics means doing more to help Americans upgrade their skills through opportunities like apprenticeships and two years of free community college, so we can keep earning higher wages down the road.  Middle-class economics means building the most competitive economy in the world, by building the best infrastructure, opening new markets so we can sell our products around the world, and investing in research - so that businesses keep creating good jobs right here. And we can afford to do these things by closing loopholes in our tax code that stack the decks for special interests and the superrich, and against responsible companies and the middle class. This is where we have to go if we're going to succeed in the new economy.  I know that there are Republicans in Congress who disagree with my approach, and I look forward to hearing their ideas for how we can pay for what the middle class needs to grow.  But what we can't do is simply pretend that things like child care or college aren't important, or pretend there's nothing we can do to help middle class families get ahead.  Because we've got work to do.  As a country, we have made it through some hard times.  But we've laid a new foundation.  We've got a new future to write.  And I'm eager to get to work.  Thanks, and have a great weekend.
.  At a moment when our economy is growing, our businesses are creating jobs at the fastest pace since the 1990s, and wages are starting to rise again, we have to make some choices about the kind of country we want to be. Will we accept an economy where only a few of us do spectacularly well?  Or will we build an economy where everyone who works hard has a chance to get ahead? That was the focus of my State of the Union Address - middle-class economics.  The idea that this country does best when everyone gets their fair shot, everyone does their fair share, and everyone plays by the same set of rules.  This week, I will send a budget to Congress that's built on those values.  We'll help working families' paychecks go farther by treating things like paid leave and child care like the economic priorities that they are.  We'll offer Americans of every age the chance to upgrade their skills so they can earn higher wages, with plans like making two years of community college free for every responsible student.  And we'll keep building the world's most attractive economy for high-wage jobs, with new investments in research, infrastructure, manufacturing, and expanded access to faster internet and new markets.  We can afford to make these investments.  Since I took office, we've cut our deficits by about two-thirds - the fastest sustained deficit reduction since just after the end of World War II.  We just have to be smarter about how we pay for our priorities, and that's what my budget does.  It proposes getting rid of special interest loopholes in our tax code, and using those savings to cut taxes for middle-class families and reward businesses that invest in America.  It refuses to play politics with our homeland security, and funds our national security priorities at home and abroad.  And it undoes the arbitrary, across-the-board budget cuts known as "the sequester" for our domestic priorities, and matches those investments dollar-for-dollar in resources our troops need to get the job done.  Now, I know that there are Republicans in Congress who disagree with my approach.  And like I said in my State of the Union Address, if they have ideas that will help middle-class families feel some economic security, I'm all in to work with them.  But I will keep doing everything I can to help more working families make ends meet and get ahead.  Not just because we want everyone to share in America's success - but because we want everyone to contribute to America's success. That's the way the middle class thrived in the last century - and that's how it will thrive again. Thanks, and have a great weekend.
. I'm talking with you today from Ivy Tech Community College in Indianapolis, where I just held a town hall and heard from everyday Americans about what we can do, together, to make their lives a little better. This week, we got news that confirms what we already know -- that our businesses continue to create jobs for hardworking folks all across the country. Last month, America's businesses added another 267,000 jobs. In 2014, our economy created more than 3.1 million jobs in all -- the best year for job growth since the late 1990s. All told, over the past 59 months, the private sector has added 11.8 million new jobs--the longest streak on record. And in the single most hopeful sign for middle class families, wages are rising again. America is poised for another good year - as long as Washington works to keep this progress going. We have to choose -- will we accept an economy where only a few of us do spectacularly well, or will we build an economy where everyone who works hard can get ahead? Because while we've come a long way, we've got more work to do to make sure that our recovery reaches more Americans, not just those at the top. That's what middle-class economics is all about -- the idea that this country does best when everyone gets their fair shot, does their fair share, and everyone plays by the same set of rules. This week, I sent Congress a budget built on middle-class economics. It helps families afford childcare, health care, college, paid leave at work, homeownership, and saving for retirement, and it could put thousands of dollars back into the pockets of a working family each year. It helps more Americans learn new skills to earn higher wages, including by making two years of community college free for responsible students all across the country. It invests in the research and infrastructure our businesses need to compete and create high-paying jobs. And it pays for this with smart spending cuts and by fixing a tax code that's riddled with special-interest loopholes for folks who don't need them, allowing us to offer tax breaks to students and families who do need them. I believe this is where we need to go to give working families more security in a time of constant economic change. And I'll work with anyone--Republican or Democrat--who wants to get to "yes" on these issues. We won't agree on everything, and that's natural -- but we should stop refighting old battles, and start working together to help you succeed in the new economy. That's what you elected us to do -- not to turn everything into another Washington food fight, but to have debates that are worthy of this country, and to build an economy not just where everyone can share in America's success, but where everyone can contribute to America's success. Thanks, and have a great weekend.
.  In my State of the Union Address, I laid out my ideas to help working families feel more secure and earn the skills required to advance in a world of constant change. And in a new economy that's increasingly built on knowledge and innovation, a core element of this middle-class economics is how well we prepare our kids for the future. For decades, we threw money at education without making sure our schools were actually improving, or whether we were giving teachers the tools they need, or whether our taxpayer dollars were being used effectively.  And our kids too often paid the price. Over the past few years, we've seen signs that our elementary and secondary school students are doing better.  Last year, our younger students earned the highest math and reading scores on record.  Last week, we learned that our high school graduation rate hit a new all-time high. This is progress.  But in a 21st century economy, our kids will only do better than we did if we educate them better than we were educated.  So we have to do more to make sure they graduate from school fully prepared for college and a career. This year, I want to work with both parties in Congress to replace No Child Left Behind with a smarter law that addresses the overuse of standardized tests, makes a real investment in preschool, and gives every kid a fair shot in the new economy. Now, it's pretty commonsense that an education bill should actually improve education.  But as we speak, there's a Republican bill in Congress that would frankly do the opposite. At a time when we should invest more in our kids, their plan would lock in cuts to schools for the rest of this decade.  We'd end up actually invest less in our kids in 2021 than we did in 2012. At a time when we should give our teachers all the resources they need, their plan could let states and cities shuffle education dollars into things like sports stadiums or tax cuts for the wealthy. At a time when we have to give every child, everywhere, a fair shot - this Congress would actually allow states to make even deeper cuts into school districts that need the most support, send even more money to some of the wealthiest school districts in America, and turn back the clock to a time when too many students were left behind in failing schools. Denying a quality education to the children of working families is as wrong as denying health care or child care to working families.  We are better than this. I have a different vision for the middle class. In today's world, we have to equip all our kids with an education that prepares them for success, regardless of what they look like, or how much their parents make, or the zip code they live in. And that means trying new things, investing in what's working, and fixing what's not. That means cutting testing down to the bare minimum required to make sure parents and teachers know how our kids and schools are doing from year to year, and relative to schools statewide. That means giving the teachers and principals who do the hard work every day the resources they need to spend less time teaching to a test, and more time teaching our kids the skills they need. Some of these changes are hard.  They'll require all of us to demand more of our schools and more of our kids, making sure they put down the video games and iPhones, and pick up the books.  They'll require us to demand that Washington treat education reform as the dedicated progress of decades - something a town with a short attention span doesn't always do very well. But I'm confident we can do this.  When it comes to education, we are not a collection of states competing against one another; we are a nation competing against the world.  Nothing will determine our success as a nation in the 21st century more than how well we educate our kids.  And we shouldn't accept anything less than the best. Thanks, and before I go - Happy Valentine's Day, Michelle.  Have a great weekend, everybody.
.  At a moment when our businesses are creating jobs at the fastest pace since the 1990s, we've still got to do everything we can to help workers and businesses succeed in the new economy - one that's competitive, connected, and changing every day. One thing we know for certain about businesses in the 21st century is that they'll need to sell more goods and services Made in America to the rest of the world.  Now, our businesses already sell goods and services in other countries at record levels.  Our farmers, our factory workers, and our small businesses are exporting more than ever before - and exporters tend to pay their workers higher wages.  More small businesses are using the internet to grow their business by reaching new customers they couldn't reach before, too.  As an example, nine in ten American small businesses that use eBay as a platform to sell their products are exporters - with customers in more than 30 different countries on average. But there's a lot of room for growth.  After all, 95% of the world's potential customers live outside our borders.  Many of them live in the Asia-Pacific - the world's fastest-growing region.  And as we speak, China is trying to write the rules for trade in the 21st century.  That would put our workers and our businesses at a massive disadvantage.  We can't let that happen.  We should write those rules.  That's why Congress should act on something called "trade promotion authority." This is bipartisan legislation that would protect American workers, and promote American businesses, with strong new trade deals from Asia to Europe that aren't just free, but are fair.  It would level the playing field for American workers.  It would hold all countries to the same high labor and environmental standards to which we hold ourselves. Now, I'm the first to admit that past trade deals haven't always lived up to the hype.  And that's why we've successfully gone after countries that break the rules at our workers' expense.  But that doesn't mean we should close ourselves off from new opportunities, and sit on the sidelines while other countries write our future for us.  We should seize those opportunities.  We should make sure the future is written by us.  And if we do, we won't just keep creating good new jobs for decades to come - we'll make sure that this century is another all-American century. Thanks, and have a great weekend.
.  In America, we believe that a lifetime of hard work and responsibility should be rewarded with a shot at a secure, dignified retirement.  It's one of the critical components of middle-class life - and this week, I took new steps to protect it.  Six years after the crisis that shook a lot of people's faith in a secure retirement, our economy is steadily growing.  Last year was the best year for job growth since the 1990s.  All told, over the past five years, the private sector has added nearly 12 million new jobs.  And since I took office, the stock market has more than doubled, replenishing the 401(k)s of millions of families. But while we've come a long way, we've got more work to do to make sure that our recovery reaches more Americans, not just those at the top.  That's what middle-class economics is all about--the idea that this country does best when everyone gets their fair shot, everybody does their fair share, and everyone plays by the same set of rules.  That last part--making sure everyone plays by the same set of rules--is why we passed historic Wall Street Reform and a Credit Card Bill of Rights.   It's why we created a new consumer watchdog agency.  And it's why we're taking new action to protect hardworking families' retirement security. If you're working hard and putting away money, you should have the peace of mind that the financial advice you're getting is sound and that your investments are protected. But right now, there are no rules of the road.  Many financial advisers put their clients' interest first - but some financial advisers get backdoor payments and hidden fees in exchange for steering people into bad investments.  All told, bad advice that results from these conflicts of interest costs middle-class and working families about $17 billion every year.  This week, I called on the Department of Labor to change that - to update the rules and require that retirement advisers put the best interests of their clients above their own financial interests.  Middle-class families cannot afford to lose their hard earned savings after a lifetime of work.  They deserve to be treated with fairness and respect.  And that's what this rule would do. While many financial advisers support these basic safeguards to prevent abuse, I know some special interests will fight this with everything they've got.  But while we welcome different perspectives and ideas on how to move forward, what I won't accept is the notion that there's nothing we can do to make sure that hard-working, responsible Americans who scrimp and save can retire with security and dignity. We're going to keep pushing for this rule, because it's the right thing to do for our workers and for our country.  The strength of our economy rests on whether hard-working families can not only share in America's success, but can also contribute to America's success.  And that's what I will never stop fighting for - an economy where everyone who works hard has the chance to get ahead. Thanks, and have a great weekend.
. Sunday is International Women's Day -- a day to celebrate remarkable women and girls worldwide, and to re-dedicate ourselves to defending the fundamental rights and dignity of all people. That's why, this week, Michelle and I launched a new initiative on a topic that's close to both our hearts: girls' education. It's called "Let Girls Learn." And its goal is to help more girls around the world go to school and stay in school. Right now, 62 million girls who should be in school, are not. And that's not an accident. It's the direct result of barriers, large and small, that stand in the way of girls who want to learn. Maybe their families can't afford the school fees. Maybe the risk of being hurt or kidnapped or even killed by men who will do anything to stop girls from learning is just too great. Or maybe they aren't in school because they're expected to get married and become mothers while they're still teenagers -- or even earlier. In too many parts of the world, girls are still valued more for their bodies than for their minds. That's just plain wrong. And we all have to do more to stop it. That's the idea behind "Let Girls Learn." We're making it clear to any country that's our partner -- or that wants to be our partner -- that they need to get serious about increasing the number of girls in school. Our diplomats and development experts are already hard at work. Our Peace Corps volunteers will play a big role, too. And we're putting our partnerships with NGOs, businesses and foundations to work on behalf of girls everywhere. I come to this issue as the leader of the world's largest economy, and Commander-in-Chief of the world's most powerful military, and I'm convinced that a world in which girls are educated is a safer, more stable, more prosperous place. When girls are educated, their future children are healthier and better nourished. Their future wages increase, which in turn strengthens their families' security. National growth gets a boost, too. And places where women and girls are treated as full and equal citizens tend to be more stable and more democratic. But I also come to this issue as the father of two wonderful young women. And I know that there are lots of girls just like Malia and Sasha out there -- girls who are funny and caring and inquisitive and strong, and have so much to offer the world. It's a privilege to be the parent of girls. And we want to make sure that no girl out there is denied her chance to learn -- that no girl is prevented from making her unique contributions to the world. Because every girl -- every girl -- deserves our respect. And every girl deserves an education. Thanks, and have a great weekend.
.  Wednesday is Earth Day, a day to appreciate and protect this precious planet we call home.  And today, there's no greater threat to our planet than climate change. 2014 was the planet's warmest year on record.  Fourteen of the 15 hottest years on record have all fallen in the first 15 years of this century.  This winter was cold in parts of our country - as some folks in Congress like to point out - but around the world, it was the warmest ever recorded. And the fact that the climate is changing has very serious implications for the way we live now.  Stronger storms.  Deeper droughts.  Longer wildfire seasons.  The world's top climate scientists are warning us that a changing climate already affects the air our kids breathe.  Last week, the Surgeon General and I spoke with public experts about how climate change is already affecting patients across the country.  The Pentagon says that climate change poses immediate risks to our national security. And on Earth Day, I'm going to visit the Florida Everglades to talk about the way that climate change threatens our economy.  The Everglades is one of the most special places in our country.  But it's also one of the most fragile.  Rising sea levels are putting a national treasure - and an economic engine for the South Florida tourism industry - at risk. So climate change can no longer be denied - or ignored.  The world is looking to the United States - to us - to lead.  And that's what we're doing.  We're using more clean energy than ever before.  America is number one in wind power, and every three weeks, we bring online as much solar power as we did in all of 2008.  We're taking steps to waste less energy, with more fuel-efficient cars that save us money at the pump, and more energy-efficient buildings that save us money on our electricity bills. So thanks in part to these actions, our carbon pollution has fallen by 10 percent since 2007, even as we've grown our economy and seen the longest streak of private-sector job growth on record.  We've committed to doubling the pace at which we cut carbon pollution, and China has committed, for the first time, to limiting their emissions.  And because the world's two largest economies came together, there's new hope that, with American leadership, this year, the world will finally reach an agreement to prevent the worst impacts of climate change before it's too late. This is an issue that's bigger and longer-lasting than my presidency.  It's about protecting our God-given natural wonders, and the good jobs that rely on them.  It's about shielding our cities and our families from disaster and harm.  It's about keeping our kids healthy and safe.  This is the only planet we've got.  And years from now, I want to be able to look our children and grandchildren in the eye and tell them that we did everything we could to protect it. Thanks everybody, and have a great weekend.
.  One of the most important positions in the President's Cabinet - and to our national security, our law enforcement, and our criminal justice system - is Attorney General. It has been more than four months since I nominated Loretta Lynch to serve as the next Attorney General of the United States.  For 30 years, Loretta has distinguished herself as a tough, fair, and independent attorney.  As the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of New York, she successfully prosecuted the terrorists who plotted to bomb the Federal Reserve Bank and the New York City subway.  She helped secure billions in settlements for people wronged by some of the world's biggest banks.  She's been dogged in her pursuit of public corruption.  She's jailed some of New York's most violent and notorious mobsters and gang members.  And through it all, she's worked closely with law enforcement and local communities to get the job done. In short, her qualifications are superb.  That's why, in the past, the Senate easily confirmed Loretta to lead one of the most prominent U.S. Attorney offices in the country - not once, but twice. Still - it has been more than four months since I nominated Loretta Lynch to serve as Attorney General.   And this time, Republican leaders in Congress won't even let her nomination come up for a vote.  In fact, by Monday, Loretta will have been languishing on the Senate floor for longer than the seven previous Attorneys General combined.  Let me say that again - she will have been waiting for a simple yes-or-no vote on the Senate floor for longer than the seven previous Attorneys General combined. No one can claim she's unqualified.  No one's saying she can't do the job.  Senators from both parties say they support her.  This is purely about politics.  First, Republicans held up her nomination because they were upset about the actions I took to make our broken immigration system smarter and fairer.  Now they're denying her a vote until they can figure out how to pass a bill on a completely unrelated issue.  But they could bring her up for a yes-or-no vote at any time.  Republicans promised that Congress would function smoothly with them in charge.  Here's a chance for them to prove it.  Congress should stop playing politics with law enforcement and national security.  They should support good people in both parties who want to reform our criminal justice system.  And that means they should end the longest confirmation process for an Attorney General in three decades, and give Loretta Lynch a vote.  Thank you.  And have a great weekend.
.  Earlier this week, I visited with students at Georgia Tech to talk about the importance of higher education in the new economy, and how we can make it more affordable.   In an economy increasingly built on innovation, the most important skill you can sell is your knowledge.  That's why higher education is, more than ever, the surest ticket to the middle class.   But just when it's never been more important, it's also never been more expensive.  The average undergrad who borrows to pay for college ends up graduating with about $28,000 in student loan debt. That's why my Administration has worked hard to make college more affordable.  We expanded tax credits and Pell Grants, enacted the largest reform to student loan programs in history, and fought to keep interest rates on student loans low.  We've acted to let millions of graduates cap loan payments at 10 percent of their income, so they don't have to choose between paying the rent and paying back their debt.  I've sent Congress my plan to bring the cost of community college down to zero - because two years of higher education should be as free and universal as high school is today. But all of us - elected officials, universities, business leaders - everybody - needs to do more to bring down college costs. Which is why this week, I unveiled another way that we can help more Americans afford college.  It doesn't involve any new spending or bureaucracy.  It's a simple declaration of values - what I call a Student Aid Bill of Rights.  It says that every student deserves access to a quality, affordable education.  Every student should be able to access the resources to pay for college.  Every borrower has the right to an affordable repayment plan.  And every borrower has the right to quality customer service, reliable information, and fair treatment, even if they struggle to repay their loans.   That's it.  Just a few simple principles.  But if we all rally around these principles, there's a lot that colleges, lenders, and the people you sent to Washington and to your state legislatures can do to realize them across the country.   So if you believe in a Student Aid Bill of Rights that will help more Americans pay for a quality education, I'm asking you to visit WhiteHouse.gov/CollegeOpportunity.  Sign your name to this declaration.  Tell your families, and your friends, and fellow students.  I'm going to ask Members of Congress, and lenders, and as many business leaders as I can find.  Because making sure that students aren't saddled with debt before they even get started in life is in all our interests.   In America, a higher education cannot be a privilege reserved for only the few.  It has to be available to everybody who's willing to work for it. Thanks, and have a great weekend.
.  Five years ago, after the worst financial crisis in decades, we passed historic Wall Street reform to end the era of bailouts and too big to fail.  As part that reform, we created an independent Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with one mission: to protect American consumers from some of the worst practices of the financial industry.  They've already put $5 billion back in the pockets of more than 15 million families.  And this week, they took an important first step towards cracking down on some of the most abusive practices involving payday loans.  Millions of Americans take out these loans every year.  In Alabama, where I visited this week, there are four times as many payday lending stores as there are McDonald's.  But while payday loans might seem like easy money, folks often end up trapped in a cycle of debt.  If you take out a $500 loan, it's easy to wind up paying more than $1,000 in interest and fees.  The step the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau announced this week is designed to change that.  The idea is pretty common sense: if you're a payday lender preparing to give a loan, you should make sure that the borrower can afford to pay it back first.  As Americans, we believe there's nothing wrong with making a profit.  But there is something wrong with making that profit by trapping hard-working men and women in a vicious cycle of debt.   Protecting working Americans' paychecks shouldn't be a partisan issue.  But the budget Republicans unveiled last week would make it harder, not easier, to crack down on financial fraud and abuse.  And this week, when Republicans rolled out their next economic idea, it had nothing to do with the middle class.  It was a new, more-than-$250 billion tax cut for the top one-tenth of the top one percent of Americans.  That would mean handing out an average tax cut of $4 million a year to just 4,000 Americans per year, and leaving the rest of the country to pay for it.  I don't think our top economic priority should be helping a tiny number of Americans who are already doing extraordinarily well, and asking everybody else to foot the bill.  I think our top priority should be helping everybody who works hard get ahead.  This country does best when everyone gets their fair shot, everyone does their fair share, and everyone plays by the same set of rules.  That's what middle-class economics is all about, and as long as I'm your President, that's what I'll keep on fighting to do. Thanks, and have a great weekend.
. This framework is the result of tough, principled diplomacy. It's a good deal -- a deal that meets our core objectives, including strict limitations on Iran's program and cutting off every pathway that Iran could take to develop a nuclear weapon. This deal denies Iran the plutonium necessary to build a bomb. It shuts down Iran's path to a bomb using enriched uranium. Iran has agreed that it will not stockpile the materials needed to build a weapon. Moreover, international inspectors will have unprecedented access to Iran's nuclear program because Iran will face more inspections than any other country in the world. If Iran cheats, the world will know it. If we see something suspicious, we will inspect it. So this deal is not based on trust, it's based on unprecedented verification. And this is a long-term deal, with strict limits on Iran's program for more than a decade and unprecedented transparency measures that will last for 20 years or more. And as a member of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, Iran will never be permitted to develop a nuclear weapon. In return for Iran's actions, the international community, including the United States, has agreed to provide Iran with phased relief from certain sanctions. If Iran violates the deal, sanctions can be snapped back into place. Meanwhile, other American sanctions on Iran for its support of terrorism, its human rights abuses, its ballistic missile program, all will continue to be enforced. As I said this week, many key details will need to be finalized over the next three months, and nothing is agreed to until everything is agreed. And if there is backsliding, there will be no deal. Here in the United States, I expect a robust debate. We'll keep Congress and the American people fully briefed on the substance of the deal. As we engage in this debate, let's remember--we really only have three options for dealing with Iran's nuclear program: bombing Iran's nuclear facilities--which will only set its program back a few years--while starting another war in the Middle East; abandoning negotiations and hoping for the best with sanctions--even though that's always led to Iran making more progress in its nuclear program; or a robust and verifiable deal like this one that peacefully prevents Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. As President and Commander in Chief, I firmly believe that the diplomatic option--a comprehensive, long-term deal like this--is by far the best option. For the United States. For our allies. And for the world. Our work -- this deal -- is not yet done. Diplomacy is painstaking work. Success is not guaranteed. But today we have an historic opportunity to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons in Iran, and to do so peacefully, with the international community firmly behind us. And this will be our work in the days and months ahead in keeping with the best traditions of American leadership.
. I've talked a lot lately about why new trade deals are important to our economy. Today, I want to talk about why new trade deals are important to our values. They're vital to middle-class economics -- the idea that this country does best when everyone gets their fair shot, everyone does their fair share, and everyone plays by the same set of rules. These are simple values. They're American values. And we strive to make sure our own economy lives up to them, especially after a financial crisis brought about by recklessness and greed. But we also live in a world where our workers have to compete on a global scale. Right now, on an uneven playing field. Where the rules are different. And that's why America has to write the rules of the global economy -- so that our workers can compete on a level playing field. I understand why a lot of people are skeptical of trade deals. Past deals didn't always live up to the hype. They didn't include the kind of protections we're fighting for today. We have lessons to learn from the past -- and we have learned them. But trying to stop a global economy at our shores isn't one of those lessons. We can't surrender to the future -- because we are meant to win the future. If America doesn't shape the rules of the global economy today, to benefit our workers, while our economy is in a position of new global strength, then China will write those rules. I've seen towns where manufacturing collapsed, plants closed down, and jobs dried up. And I refuse to accept that for our workers. Because I know when the playing field is level, nobody can beat us. That's why, when I took office, we started thinking about how to revamp trade in a way that actually works for working Americans. And that's what we've done with a new trade partnership we're negotiating in the Asia-Pacific -- home to the world's fastest-growing markets. It's the highest-standard trade agreement in history. It's got strong provisions for workers and the environment -- provisions that, unlike in past agreements, are actually enforceable. If you want in, you have to meet these standards. If you don't, then you're out. Once you're a part of this partnership, if you violate your responsibilities, there are actually consequences. And because it would include Canada and Mexico, it fixes a lot of what was wrong with NAFTA, too. So this isn't a race to the bottom, for lower wages and working conditions. The trade agreements I'm negotiating will drive a race to the top. And we're making sure American workers can retool through training programs and community colleges, and use new skills to transition into new jobs. If I didn't think this was the right thing to do for working families, I wouldn't be fighting for it. We've spent the past six years trying to rescue the economy, retool the auto industry, and revitalize American manufacturing. And if there were ever an agreement that undercut that progress, or hurt those workers, I wouldn't sign it. My entire presidency is about helping working families recover from recession and rebuild for the future. As long as I'm President, that's what I'll keep fighting to do. Thanks, and have a great weekend.
.  I'm speaking with you from the DC Public Library in Anacostia, where I just met with a group of promising middle school students. We spent some time talking about their lives, and how we all care about their success - and how that starts with a good education. So one thing I announced here in Anacostia is a new project by libraries and major publishers to provide more than $250 million in free e-Books for low-income students. We also issued a challenge to mayors, libraries, and school leaders to help every student get a library card, so they can expand their horizons in a place like this. It's all part of our ConnectED initiative to connect 99% of America's students to high-speed Internet.  Because no matter who you are, where you live, or how much money you've got, you should be able to access the world's knowledge and information just like anyone else. In a global economy, we've got to help ensure that everyone, of every age, in every zip code - urban and rural - has the chance to learn the skills that lead directly to a good job. That's also why I've put forward a plan to make two years of community college as free and universal for every American as high school is today.  It's something I'll talk about in my commencement address next week at Lake Area Tech, in the small town of Watertown, South Dakota.  It's a community college with a graduation rate that is nearly twice the national average.  They're proving that a great education can be within everyone's reach. All of us have a responsibility to not only make sure our own children have pathways to success but that all children do.  And a great education is the ticket to a better life like never before.  Making sure all our kids receive one is the surest way to show them that their lives matter.  And it's the smartest way to prove to them that in communities like this, and in a country like ours, we believe in opportunity for all. Thanks, everybody.  And have a great weekend.
.  Today marks an historic anniversary--70 years since the Allied victory in Europe during World War II.  On V-E Day after the Nazi surrender, people swarmed the streets of London and Paris and Moscow, and the cloud of fear that had hung for so many years finally lifted.  Here at home, from small towns to Times Square, crowds gathered in celebration, singing and dancing with joy.  There would still be three more months of deadly fighting in the Pacific.  But for a few hours, the world rejoiced in the hope of peace.  General Eisenhower announced the news with little fanfare. "The Mission of this Allied Force," he said, "was fulfilled."  But his simple message belied the extraordinary nature of the Allied victory--and the staggering human loss.  For over five years, brutal fighting laid waste to an entire continent.  Mothers, fathers, children were murdered in concentration camps.  By the time the guns fell silent in Europe, some 40 million people on the continent had lost their lives.   Today, we pay tribute to all who served.  They were patriots, like my grandfather who served in Patton's Army--soldiers, sailors, airmen, marines, coast guard, merchant marines--and the women of the WACs and the WAVES and every branch.  They risked their lives, and gave their lives so that we, the people the world over, could live free.  They were women who stepped up in unprecedented numbers, manning the home front, and--like my grandmother--building bombers on assembly lines. This was the generation that literally saved the world--that ended the war and laid a foundation for peace. This was the generation that traded in their uniforms for a college education so they could marry their sweethearts, buy homes, raise children and build the strongest middle class the world has ever known. This was the generation that included heroes like the Tuskegee Airmen, the Navajo Code Talkers and the Japanese-Americans of the 442nd Regiment--and who continued the fight for freedom here at home, expanding equality and opportunity and justice for minorities and women. We will be forever grateful for what these remarkable men and women did, for the selfless grace they showed in one of our darkest hours.  But as we mark this 70th anniversary, let's not simply commemorate history.  Let's rededicate ourselves to the freedoms for which they fought. Let's make sure that we keep striving to fulfill our founding ideals--that we're a country where no matter who we are or where we're from or what we look like or who we love, if we work hard and take responsibility, every American will have the opportunity to make of our lives what we will. Let's make sure that we keep striving to fulfill our founding ideals--that we're a country where no matter who we are or where we're from or what we look like or who we love, if we work hard and take responsibility, every American will have the opportunity to make of our lives what we will. Let's stand united with our allies, in Europe and beyond, on behalf of our common values--freedom, security, democracy, human rights, and the rule of law around the world--and against bigotry and hatred in all their forms so that we give meaning to that pledge: "Never forget.  Never again."
.  I'd been on the job for three weeks, and we were just a few months into the worst economic crisis of our lifetimes.  Elkhart was hit harder than most.  Unemployment there peaked at nearly twenty percent shortly after my visit.  Nearly one in five people there were out of work. This week, I returned to Elkhart.  Unemployment there has now fallen to around four percent.  More families are back on sturdy ground; more are covered by health insurance; more of their kids are graduating from high school.  And it's no accident - it's because people there worked hard, and sacrificed, and looked out for each other.  But it's also because we made a series of smart decisions early in my presidency.  To rescue the auto industry.  To help families refinance their homes.  To invest in things like high-tech manufacturing, clean energy, and the infrastructure that creates good new jobs - not to mention the job training that helps folks earn new skills to fill those jobs. The results are clear.  America's businesses have created 14.5 million new jobs over 75 straight months.  We've seen the first sustained manufacturing growth since the nineties.  We've cut unemployment by more than half.  Another 20 million Americans have health insurance.  And we've cut our deficits by nearly 75 percent.  We haven't fixed everything.  Wages, while growing again, need to grow faster.  The gap between the rich and everyone else is still way too wide.  Republicans in Congress have repeatedly blocked investments and initiatives that would have created jobs faster.  But the middle class isn't getting squeezed because of minorities, or immigrants, or moochers, or anyone else we're told to blame for our problems.  If we're going to fix what needs fixing, we can't divide ourselves.  We've got to come together, around our common economic goals.  We've got to push back against policies that protect powerful special interests, and push for a better deal for all working Americans. That's the choice you'll get to make this year.  Between policies that raise wages, and policies that won't.  Between strengthening Social Security and making it more generous, or making it harder to help people save and retire.  Between strengthening the rules we put on Wall Street to prevent another crisis, or dismantling them.  Between a tax code that's fair for working families, or wasteful tax cuts for a fortunate few at the very top. Over the past seven years, we've proven that progress is possible.  But it's not inevitable.  It depends on us.  It depends on the choices we make.  And if we come together, around our common values, and our belief in opportunity for everyone who puts in the effort - then we'll deliver on a brighter future for all of us.  Thanks, and have a great weekend.
.  Today, I want to talk with you about the crisis in Puerto Rico - and why it matters to all of us.    Puerto Ricans are American citizens, just like folks in Maine or Oklahoma or New Mexico.  And over the last decade, Puerto Rico has suffered through a deep and painful recession - but unlike the rest of the United States, it hasn't recovered.   Today, the island continues to face a crippling economic crisis.  Schools are closing.  Power is being cut off at homes and hospitals.  Teachers have to choose between turning on the lights or turning on the computers.  Doctors can't get medicine to treat newborns unless they pay in cash.  And as the Zika virus threatens both the island and the mainland, workers dealing with mosquito control to help protect women and their unborn babies are at risk of being laid off.   Right now, Puerto Rico is spending about a third of its tax revenue on debt payments - far more than anywhere else in America.  And on July 1, the island faces another $2 billion in debt payments that it cannot pay.   There is only one way for Puerto Rico to pull itself out of this crisis - and that's by restructuring its debt and finding a sustainable fiscal path toward growth and opportunity for its people.  But here's the problem.  Right now, Puerto Rico doesn't have the tools it needs to restructure its debt - tools available elsewhere in America.   And only Congress can fix the problem, and put Puerto Rico on a path to recovery. Thankfully, this week, the House overwhelmingly passed a bipartisan bill to address the crisis, and I now urge the Senate to move quickly to follow suit.  This bill won't cost federal taxpayers a dime.  It doesn't include special-interest bailouts.  And it gives Puerto Rico the ability to restructure its debt, safeguard essential services, and provide important protections to public pensions that more than 300,000 folks rely on to retire with dignity.   This bill also includes something else - a temporary system of oversight to help implement needed reforms and ensure transparency.  I know that some folks in Puerto Rico are worried about this kind of oversight.  But I've always insisted that any solution to this crisis has to respect the democratic rights of the people of Puerto Rico.  And I am committed to making sure that Puerto Ricans are well-represented in this process, so that we can be sure we're taking steps that are in the island's best interests.  This bill is not a perfect solution - nobody's saying it is.  That's what happens in divided government.  But it's the only option on the table to save Puerto Rico from spiraling out of control.  And that's exactly what would happen if Congress fails to do its job.   There's no question this is a trying time for folks in Puerto Rico.  They've seen too many jobs lost and too many neighbors leave in search of better opportunity elsewhere.  It's clear that it's time for Puerto Rico to chart a new course and make a fresh start.  This bill is just a first step.   We all have more work to do to make sure that the people of Puerto Rico receive the health care they deserve and the good jobs and economic opportunities they need to build a better future for their kids.  And I want the people of Puerto Rico to know that my administration is committed to your success.  Because you're vital to America's success. That's what this is all about.  We don't turn our backs on our fellow Americans.  We don't treat folks differently because of where they live.  Instead, we treat each other as Americans.  We come together, especially when it's hard.  That's how we've always set ourselves on a course toward a brighter day.   Thanks everybody, and have a great weekend.
's been less than a week since the deadliest mass shooting in American history.  And foremost in all of our minds has been the loss and the grief felt by the people of Orlando, especially our friends who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgender.  I visited with the families of many of the victims on Thursday.  And one thing I told them is that they're not alone.  The American people, and people all over the world, are standing with them - and we always will. The investigation is ongoing, but we know that the killer was an angry and disturbed individual who took in extremist information and propaganda over the internet, and became radicalized.  During his killing spree, he pledged allegiance to ISIL, a group that's called on people around the world to attack innocent civilians.  We are and we will keep doing everything in our power to stop these kinds of attacks, and to ultimately destroy ISIL.  The extraordinary people in our intelligence, military, homeland security, and law enforcement communities have already prevented many attacks, saved many lives, and we won't let up.  Alongside the stories of bravery and healing and coming together over the past week, we've also seen a renewed focus on reducing gun violence.  As I said a few days ago, being tough on terrorism requires more than talk.  Being tough on terrorism, particularly the sorts of homegrown terrorism that we've seen now in Orlando and San Bernardino, means making it harder for people who want to kill Americans to get their hands on assault weapons that are capable of killing dozens of innocents as quickly as possible.  That's something I'll continue to talk about in the weeks ahead. It's also part of something that I've been thinking a lot about this week - and that's the responsibilities we have to each other.  That's certainly true with Father's Day upon us. I grew up without my father around.  While I wonder what my life would have been like if he had been a greater presence, I've also tried extra hard to be a good dad for my own daughters.  Like all dads, I worry about my girls' safety all the time.  Especially when we see preventable violence in places our sons and daughters go every day - their schools and houses of worship, movie theaters, nightclubs, as they get older.  It's unconscionable that we allow easy access to weapons of war in these places - and then, even after we see parents grieve for their children, the fact that we as a country do nothing to prevent the next heartbreak makes no sense.  So this past week, I've also thought a lot about dads and moms around the country who've had to explain to their children what happened in Orlando.  Time and again, we've observed moments of silence for victims of terror and gun violence.  Too often, those moments have been followed by months of silence.  By inaction that is simply inexcusable.  If we're going to raise our kids in a safer, more loving world, we need to speak up for it.  We need our kids to hear us speak up about the risks guns pose to our communities, and against a status quo that doesn't make sense.  They need to hear us say these things even when those who disagree are loud and are powerful.  We need our kids to hear from us why tolerance and equality matter - about the times their absence has scarred our history and how greater understanding will better the future they will inherit.  We need our kids to hear our words - and also see us live our own lives with love. And we can't forget our responsibility to remind our kids of the role models whose light shines through in times of darkness.  The police and first responders, the lifesaving bystanders and blood donors.  Those who comfort mourners and visit the wounded.  The victims whose last acts on this earth helped others to safety.  They're not just role models for our kids - their actions are examples for all of us. To be a parent is to come to realize not everything is in our control.  But as parents, we should remember there's one responsibility that's always in our power to fulfill: our obligation to give our children unconditional love and support; to show them the difference between right and wrong; to teach them to love, not to hate; and to appreciate our differences not as something to fear, but as a great gift to cherish. To me, fatherhood means being there.  So in the days ahead, let's be there for each other.  Let's be there for our families, and for those that are hurting.  Let's come together in our communities and as a country.  And let's never forget how much good we can achieve simply by loving one another. Happy Father's Day to all the dads out there, and have a great weekend.
. Everything we've done over the past six years has been in pursuit of one overarching goal: creating opportunity for all. What we've long understood, though, is that some communities have consistently had the odds stacked against them. That's true of rural communities with chronic poverty. That's true of some manufacturing communities that suffered after the plants they depended on closed their doors. It's true of some suburbs and inner cities, where jobs can be hard to find and harder to get to. That sense of unfairness and powerlessness has helped to fuel the kind of unrest that we've seen in places like Baltimore, Ferguson, and New York. It has many causes -- from a basic lack of opportunity to groups feeling unfairly targeted by police - which means there's no single solution. But there are many that could make a different and could help. And we have to do everything in our power to make this country's promise real for everyone willing to work for it. That's why last Tuesday, at a summit organized by Catholics and evangelicals, I sat down with a conservative scholar and a poverty expert for a discussion on what it takes to open more doors of opportunity. We know our efforts matter: since 1967, we've brought poverty down by about 40 percent, thanks in part to programs like Social Security and the Earned Income Tax Credit for working families. And we know that there are folks from all faiths, and across the ideological spectrum, who care deeply about "the least of these." So I hope this conversation continues, not as a question of whether, but of how, we can work together to grow opportunity. Because it's not words, but deeds, that make a difference. And from expanding tax cuts for working parents, to raising high school graduation rates, to helping millions of Americans secure health insurance when they didn't have it just a few years ago -- our actions are making a difference. Of course, lack of opportunity is not the only barrier between too many of our young people and the kind of future they deserve. On Monday, I'll travel to Camden, New Jersey, a city that has faced one of the highest violent crime rates in America. I'll highlight some of the innovative things they've done to help police do their jobs more safely and reduce crime in the process. And I'll highlight steps all cities can take to maintain trust between the brave law enforcement officers who put their lives on the line, and the communities they're sworn to serve and protect. Whether we are Democrats, Republicans, or independents; whether we live in one of our poorest communities, one of our wealthiest, or anywhere in between, we all want our country to be one where hard work pays off and responsibility is rewarded. We want a place where you can make it if you try. That's the promise we make to our young people. That's the promise that makes us exceptional. And it's the promise I'll never stop fighting to keep, for my children and for yours. Thanks, and have a great weekend.
.  This weekend is Memorial Day--a time to pay tribute to all our men and women in uniform who've ever given their lives so that we can live in freedom and security.  This year, the holiday is especially meaningful.  It's the first Memorial Day since our war ended in Afghanistan.  On Monday, at Arlington Cemetery, I'll join our Gold Star families, veterans, and their loved ones to remember all our fallen heroes, including the more than 2,200 American patriots who gave their lives in Afghanistan.  And I plan to share a few of their stories. Growing up in Arizona, Wyatt Martin loved the outdoors.  To him, a great day was a day spent fishing.  After high school, he enlisted in the Army because he believed that the blessings he enjoyed as an American came with an obligation to give back to his country. Ramon Morris was born in Jamaica, and as a teenager came to Queens.  Like so many proud immigrants, he felt a calling to serve his new country and joined the Army.  He fell in love, got engaged, and the thing he wanted most was to make the world safer for his three-year-old daughter. In their lives, Specialist Wyatt Martin and Sergeant First Class Ramon Morris travelled different paths.  But in December, their paths intersected as the final two Americans to give their lives during our combat mission in Afghanistan. This weekend also reminds us that, around the world, our men and women in uniform continue to serve and risk their lives.  In Afghanistan, our troops now have a new mission--training and advising Afghan forces.  John Dawson was one of them.  From Massachusetts, he loved the Bruins and the Pats.  In April, he gave his life as an Army combat medic--the first American to give his life in this new mission.  This Memorial Day, we'll honor Corporal Dawson as well. Like generations of heroes before them, these Americans gave everything they had--not for glory, not even for gratitude, but for something greater than themselves.  We cannot bring them back.  Nor can we ease the pain of their families and friends who live with their loss.  But we are the Americans they died to defend.  So what we can do--what we must do--is fulfill our sacred obligations to them, just like they fulfilled theirs to us.  We have to honor their memory.  We have to care for their families, and our veterans who served with them.  And as a nation, we have to remain worthy of their sacrifice--forever committed to the country they loved and the freedom they fought for and died for. Thank you, have a wonderful weekend, and may God bless our fallen heroes and their families.
. As President and Commander in Chief, my greatest responsibility is the safety of the American people. And in our fight against terrorists, we need to use every effective tool at our disposal -- both to defend our security and to protect the freedoms and civil liberties enshrined in our Constitution. But tomorrow -- Sunday, at midnight -- some important tools we use against terrorists will expire. That's because Congress has not renewed them, and because legislation that would -- the USA Freedom Act -- is stuck in the Senate. I want to be very clear about what this means. Today, when investigating terrorist networks, our national security professionals can seek a court order to obtain certain business records. Our law enforcement professionals can seek a roving wiretap to keep up with terrorists when they switch cell phones. We can seek a wiretap on so-called lone wolves -- suspected terrorists who may not be directly tied to a terrorist group. These tools are not controversial. Since 9/11, they have been renewed numerous times. FBI Director James Comey says they are "essential" and that losing them would "severely" impact terrorism investigations. But if Congress doesn't act by tomorrow at midnight, these tools go away as well. The USA Freedom Act also accomplishes something I called for a year and a half ago: it ends the bulk metadata program -- the bulk collection of phone records -- as it currently exists and puts in place new reforms. The government will no longer hold these records; telephone providers will. The Act also includes other changes to our surveillance laws -- including more transparency -- to help build confidence among the American people that your privacy and civil liberties are being protected. But if Congress doesn't act by midnight tomorrow, these reforms will be in jeopardy, too. It doesn't have to be this way. The USA Freedom Act reflects ideas from privacy advocates, our private sector partners and our national security experts. It already passed the House of Representatives with overwhelming bipartisan support -- Republicans and Democrats. A majority of the Senate -- Republicans and Democrats -- have voted to move it forward. So what's the problem? A small group of senators is standing in the way. And, unfortunately, some folks are trying to use this debate to score political points. But this shouldn't and can't be about politics. This is a matter of national security. Terrorists like al Qaeda and ISIL aren't suddenly going to stop plotting against us at midnight tomorrow. And we shouldn't surrender the tools that help keep us safe. It would be irresponsible. It would be reckless. And we shouldn't allow it to happen. So today, I'm calling on Americans to join me in speaking with one voice to the Senate. Put the politics aside. Put our national security first. Pass the USA Freedom Act -- now. And let's protect the security and civil liberties of every American. Thanks very much.
.  Right now, there are American troops serving in harm's way and standing sentry around the world.  There are veterans who've served honorably in times of war and peace, and often came home bearing the invisible and visible wounds of war.  They may not speak the loudest about their patriotism - they let their actions do that.  And the right time to think of these men and women, and thank them for their service and sacrifice, is every day of the year. Memorial Day, which we'll observe Monday, is different.  It's the day we remember those who never made it home; those who never had the chance to take off the uniform and be honored as a veteran.  It's the day we stop to reflect with gratitude on the sacrifice of generations who made us more prosperous and free, and to think of the loved ones they left behind. Remembering them - searing their stories and their contributions into our collective memory - that's an awesome responsibility.  It's one that all of us share as citizens.  As Commander-in-Chief, I have no more solemn obligation than leading our men and women in uniform.  Making sure they have what they need to succeed.  Making sure we only send them into harm's way when it's absolutely necessary.  And if they make the ultimate sacrifice - if they give their very lives - we have to do more than honor their memory.  We have to be there for their families.  Over the years, Michelle and I have spent quiet moments with the families of the fallen - husbands and wives, mothers and fathers, sons and daughters.  They've shared their pain - but also their pride in the sacrifices their loved ones made under our proud flag. It's up to the rest of us to live our lives in a way that's worthy of these sacrifices.  The idea to set aside a Memorial Day each year didn't come from our government - it came from ordinary citizens who acknowledged that while we can't build monuments to every heroic act of every warrior we lost in battle, we can keep their memories alive by taking one day out of the year to decorate the places where they're buried. That's something that so many of our fellow Americans are doing this weekend.  Remembering.  Remembering the soldiers, sailors, airmen, Marines, and Coast Guardsmen who died in our defense.  Remembering those who remain missing.  Remembering that they were our fellow citizens and churchgoers, classmates and children, and more often than not, the best of us.  So this Memorial weekend, I hope you'll join me in acts of remembrance.  Lay a flower or plant a flag at a fallen hero's final resting place.  Reach out to a Gold Star Family in your community, and listen to the story they have to tell.  Send a care package to our troops overseas, volunteer to make a wounded warrior's day a little easier, or hire a veteran who is ready and willing to serve at home just as they did abroad. Or just pause, take a moment, and offer a silent word of prayer or a public word of thanks. The debt we owe our fallen heroes is one we can never truly repay.  But our responsibility to remember is something we can live up to every day of the year. Thanks.  May God watch over our fallen heroes and their families, and may God continue to bless the United States of America.
.  The story of America is a story of progress.  It's written by ordinary people who put their shoulders to the wheel of history to make sure that the promise of our founding applies not just to some of us - but to all of us.  Farmers and blacksmiths who chose revolution over tyranny.  Immigrants who crossed oceans and the Rio Grande.  Women who reached for the ballot, and scientists who shot for the moon.  The preachers, and porters, and seamstresses who guided us toward the mountaintop of freedom. Sometimes, we can mark that progress in special places - hallowed ground where history was written - places like Independence Hall.  Gettysburg.  Seneca Falls.  Kitty Hawk and Cape Canaveral.  The Edmund Pettus Bridge.   One of these special places is the Stonewall Inn.  Back in 1969, as a turbulent decade was winding down, the Stonewall Inn was a popular gathering place for New York City's LGBT community.  At the time, being gay, lesbian, bisexual, or transgender was considered obscene, illegal - even a mental illness.  One night, police raided the bar, and started arresting folks.  Raids like these were nothing new - but this time, the patrons had had enough. So they stood up, and spoke out, and over the course of the next several days, they refused to be silenced.  The riots became protests; the protests became a movement; the movement ultimately became an integral part of America. Over the past seven years, we've seen achievements that would have been unimaginable to the folks who, knowingly or not, started the modern LGBT movement at Stonewall.  Today, all Americans are protected by a hate crimes law that includes sexual orientation and gender identity.  "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" is history.  Insurance companies can no longer turn you away because of who you are.  Transgender Americans are more visible than ever, helping to make our nation more inclusive and welcoming for all.  And one year ago this weekend, we lit the White House in every color - because in every state in America, you're now free to marry the person you love. There's still work to do.  As we saw two weeks ago in Orlando, the LGBT community still faces real discrimination, real violence, real hate.  So we can't rest.  We've got to keep pushing for equality and acceptance and tolerance.  But the arc of our history is clear - it's an arc of progress.  And a lot of that progress can be traced back to Stonewall.  So this week, I'm designating the Stonewall National Monument as the newest addition to America's national parks system.  Stonewall will be our first national monument to tell the story of the struggle for LGBT rights.  I believe our national parks should reflect the full story of our country - the richness and diversity and uniquely American spirit that has always defined us.  That we are stronger together.  That out of many, we are one.  That's what makes us the greatest nation on earth.  And it's what we celebrate at Stonewall - for our generation and for all those who come after us.  Thanks everybody, and have a great weekend.
.  It's been a challenging couple weeks.  The shootings in Minnesota and Baton Rouge; the protests; the targeting and murder of police officers in Dallas - it's left all of us struggling to make sense of things at times.  Now, I know that for many, it can feel like the deepest fault lines of our democracy have suddenly been exposed, and even widened.  But the America I know - the America I saw this week - is just not as divided as some folks try to insist.  I saw it on Monday, when I met with law enforcement to talk about the challenges they face, and how too often, we ask our police to do too much - to be social workers, and teachers, guardians, and drug counselors as well.  I saw it on Tuesday, when I traveled to Dallas for the memorial service for the five courageous officers who died in the line of duty - even as they were protecting protesters with whom they may have disagreed. I saw it on Wednesday, when I hosted police chiefs, Black Lives Matter activists, state and local leaders, and others for a discussion that lasted more than four hours - a discussion on more steps we can take to continue supporting the police who keep our streets safe, and instill confidence that the law applies to everyone equally.  And I saw it on Thursday, at a town hall in D.C., where we talked about how there is no contradiction between honoring police and recognizing the racial disparities that exist in our criminal justice system, and trying to fix these discrepancies. These conversations were candid, challenging, even uncomfortable at times.  But that's the point.  We have to be able to talk about these things, honestly and openly, not just in the comfort of our own circles, but with folks who look differently and think differently than we do.  Otherwise, we'll never break this dangerous cycle.  And that's what America's all about.  Not just finding policies that work - but forging consensus, fighting cynicism, and finding the political will to keep changing this country for the better.  That's what America gives us - all of us - the capacity to change. It won't happen overnight.  The issues we're grappling with go back decades, even centuries.  But if we can open our hearts to try and see ourselves in one another; if we can worry less about which side has been wronged, and worry more about joining sides to do right, as equal parts of one American family - then I'm confident that together, we will lead our country to a better day.  Thanks everybody.  Have a great weekend.
.  This week, America came together to salute our veterans - to express our appreciation to all who served so that we might live free.  But our gratitude should extend beyond what our veterans have done for us in the past.  It should remind us of our responsibility to serve them as well as they have served us.  It should compel us to keep our veterans central to the ongoing work of this nation.  In recent years, we've made historic investments to boost the VA budget, expand veterans' benefits, and improve care for our wounded warriors.  We've now slashed the disability claims backlog by nearly 90 percent from its peak.  We're reducing the outrage of veterans' homelessness and we've helped tens of thousands of veterans get off the streets.  The veterans' unemployment rate is down to 3.9 percent - even lower than the national average.  Of course, we're not satisfied.  We've still got more work to do - and I've directed my Administration to keep doing everything it can to fulfill our promise to our veterans.  But this isn't just a job for government alone.  We all have a role to play.  Less than one percent of Americans are serving in uniform.  So it's true most Americans don't always see and appreciate the incredible skills and assets that our veterans can offer.  But every American should know that our veterans are some of the most talented, capable people in the world.  They've mastered skills and technologies and leadership roles that are impossible to teach off the battlefield.  They know how to get stuff done. And as our veterans will tell you themselves, they're not finished serving their country.  They're teachers and doctors, engineers and entrepreneurs, social workers and community leaders.  They serve in statehouses across the country and in Congress.  As I tell small business owners and CEOs on a regular basis, if you want to get the job done, hire a vet.  Every sector, every industry, every community in this country can benefit from the incredible talents of our veterans.  Our troops and veterans give us their very best.  That's what a soldier named Captain Florent Groberg proved.  Three years ago, on patrol in Afghanistan, Flo saw a suicide bomber coming toward his unit.  Without hesitating, Flo grabbed him by his vest and helped push him to the ground.  When the bomb went off, Flo was badly injured, and four of his comrades were killed.  But many more were saved because of Flo's sacrifice.  Flo represents the very best of America - and this week, I was proud to present him with the Medal of Honor for his actions.  Veterans like Flo, they deserve our undying gratitude.  They deserve the chance to keep serving the country they risked everything to defend.  And so we must come together to keep giving them that chance, not just on Veterans Day, but on every single day of the year.  May God bless all those who serve and all who have given their lives for our country.  And may God bless the United States of America.
.  On Monday, Michelle, Malia, Sasha, and I will celebrate the Fourth like most of you - in the backyard.  We'll hang out with family and friends, throw some burgers and dogs on the grill, and watch the fireworks show.  Of course, we're fortunate enough to have the South Lawn as our backyard.  So we're also going to fill it with hundreds of our troops, our veterans, and their families.  Over the past seven and a half years, it's become one of my favorite traditions.  We get to celebrate our freedoms while doing what we can to honor all those who serve and sacrifice to make that freedom possible. And I know that honoring our service members, our veterans, and their families is something that so many Americans try to do every day, without fanfare, or expectation of anything in return. For the past five years, Michelle and Dr. Jill Biden have tried to follow the example of so many of those Americans with their Joining Forces initiative.  They've rallied businesses to hire more than 1.2 million veterans and military spouses, and helped reduce veteran homelessness.  And just this week, Michelle and Jill announced a breakthrough on a concern they've heard again and again from the military spouses they spend so much time with - and that's the issue of professional licensing.  This is something that most Americans aren't familiar with.  But for military families, it's a big challenge.  Here's why.  Our troops are often transferred from base to base.  It's part of the job.  And because their families serve with them, that means their spouses move ten times more often than the rest of us.  Ten times more often.  That's tough on a career.  And more than one in three of these spouses works in a profession that requires a professional license or certification.  Nurses.  Childcare providers.  Accountants.  Social workers.  And lots of other jobs.  And until recently, when these spouses were asked to move across state lines, they often needed to re-certify for a job they're already qualified for.  A nurse with years of experience might have to take entry-level classes, or pay a fee, or wait months for paperwork to be processed before he or she could get back to work on the job they love and that lets them support their families.  It didn't make any sense.  So we changed it.  When Michelle and Jill took up this cause five years ago, only three states had taken action on military spouse licensing.  But they rallied governors and state legislatures to action.  And this week, we reached a milestone.  Today, all fifty states have acted to streamline many of these licensing issues.  This is a big step forward, but we're not done yet.  We're going to keep working with states to make licensing simpler for more jobs and reach more qualified workers.  But we can finally say to so many of our military families - when you move, you'll no longer be forced to put the career you love on hold just because you and your families have chosen to serve this country. That's what this is about - serving our men and women in uniform as well as they have served us.  But you don't have to be a governor or a First Lady to make a difference.  So this holiday weekend, take a look at JoiningForces.gov to find out how you can serve the troops, veterans, and military families in your community. And to all our brave men and women in uniform - you represent the best of who we are as a nation.  On this day and every day, we thank you. Thanks everybody.  Have a great Fourth of July.
: Hi, everybody. I'm here with Senator Elizabeth Warren, one of our strongest advocates for families and consumers like you. Today, we want to talk about some of the actions we've taken to protect everything you've worked so hard to build. Eight years ago, after some big banks made irresponsible and risky bets with your money, we almost slipped into another Great Depression. While the recklessness started on Wall Street, it didn't take long before it led to real pain for folks on Main Street. It would cost millions of our fellow Americans their jobs, homes, and savings.  WARREN: The financial crisis wasn't an unstoppable act of nature. The whole thing could have been avoided, but we didn't have the rules in place to stop Wall Street from taking enormous risks that threatened the economy. We didn't have strong protections to keep consumers from being cheated by tricks and traps on financial contracts.    POTUS: So when I took office in the darkest days of the crisis, I promised you we wouldn't just recover from crisis - we'd rebuild our economy on a new foundation to make sure a crisis like that never happens again.   WARREN: President Obama delivered. He signed into law the toughest Wall Street reforms and strongest consumer protections in generations. Trust me - I'm a pretty tough grader. These new rules are making our financial system more transparent, getting rid of a lot of fine print, and making sure that if a bank screws up, you have someone to call so you don't get stuck with the bill.   POTUS: These reforms have already made our financial system safer and more resilient. And part of passing those strong consumer protections meant establishing the first-ever Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, based on an idea that Senator Warren came up with before the crisis even began.    WARREN: Every day, the good people at that independent agency crack down on dishonest and deceptive practices like the ones that helped cause the crash. The proof is in the more than 27 million consumers who in just five years have gotten refunds and other relief from credit card companies, payday lenders, debt collectors, and others that tried to rip them off.   POTUS: Before the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, you didn't have a strong ally to turn to if your bank took advantage of you, or you were being harassed or charged inappropriate fees. Now you do.    WARREN: The Bureau is also there to help you make better-informed decisions. Before you take out a mortgage, or a loan for college or a new car, check out the agency's website - CFPB.gov. It can help you sift through the confusing but important details.   POTUS: Republicans and big banks who opposed these commonsense rules claimed they'd hurt the economy. But we've seen what happened to the economy when we didn't have these rules. And despite their claims, our economy is stronger today than it was before the crisis. Since we dug out from the worst of it, our businesses have added almost 15 million new jobs. Corporate profits are up, lending to businesses is up, and the stock market has hit an all-time high. So the idea this was bad for business just doesn't hold water. Now our task should be making sure we build on those gains, and make sure they're felt by everybody.   WARREN: But every year, like clockwork, big banks and their Republican allies in Congress try to roll back these protections and undermine the consumer watchdog, whose only job is to look out for you. Their nominee for President promises to dismantle all of it. They may have forgotten about the crisis, but working families sure haven't. We haven't either. And that's why we're not going to let them give Wall Street the ability to threaten our economy all over again.    POTUS: Whether you're a Democrat, a Republican, or an independent, if you're a hardworking American who plays by the rules, you should expect Wall Street to play by the rules, too. That's what we're fighting for.  WARREN: It's about basic fairness for everyone. POTUS: And it's about responsibility from everyone. Thanks to leaders like Senator Warren, our country, our economy, and our families are better off. Let's keep it that way. Thanks for being here, Senator Warren. WARREN: Thanks for having me, Mr. President. POTUS: Have a great weekend, everybody.
. In 1620, a small band of pilgrims came to this continent, refugees who had fled persecution and violence in their native land. Nearly 400 years later, we remember their part in the American story -- and we honor the men and women who helped them in their time of need. Thanksgiving is a day for food and football, and for hoping the turkey didn't turn out too dry. But it's also a day to count our blessings and give back to others -- a reminder that no matter our circumstances, all of us have something to be grateful for. Maybe it's good health, a new addition to the family, or a child taking a next step toward college or a career. Maybe it's a new job, or long overdue raise. Maybe it's something as simple, and as important, as the chance to spend time with the people who matter most. Of course, every American can be thankful for the chance to live in a country founded on the belief that all of us are created equal. And as President, I'm thankful that I get to see the best of America every day -- the courage of our troops and veterans, the resilience of our families, and the basic goodness of the ordinary people who call this country. On this uniquely American holiday, we also remember that so much of our greatness comes from our generosity. There's the generosity of Americans who volunteer at food banks and shelters, making sure that no one goes hungry on a day when so many plates are full. There's the generosity of Americans who take part not just in Black Friday and Cyber Monday, but Giving Tuesday -- recognizing that in the holiday season, what you give is as important as what you get. And I've been touched by the generosity of the Americans who've written me letters and emails in recent weeks, offering to open their homes to refugees fleeing the brutality of ISIL. Now, people should remember that no refugee can enter our borders until they undergo the highest security checks of anyone traveling to the United States. That was the case before Paris, and it's the case now. And what happened in Paris hasn't stopped Americans from opening their arms anyway. One woman from Pennsylvania wrote me to say, "Money is tight for us in my household ... But i have a guest room. I have a pantry full of food. We can do this." Another woman from Florida told me her family's history dates back to the Mayflower -- and she said that welcoming others is part of "what it means to be an American." Nearly four centuries after the Mayflower set sail, the world is still full of pilgrims -- men and women who want nothing more than the chance for a safer, better future for themselves and their families. What makes America America is that we offer that chance. We turn Lady Liberty's light to the world, and widen our circle of concern to say that all God's children are worthy of our compassion and care. That's part of what makes this the greatest country on Earth. I hope that you and your family have wonderful Thanksgiving, surrounded by loved ones, and full of joy and gratitude. And together, may we all play our own small part in the American story, and write a next chapter that future generations can be thankful for. From the Obama family to yours, have a great Thanksgiving.
.  This week, Americans across our country have shown what it means to be strong in the face of terrorism.  In San Bernardino, even as the community continues to grieve, people are refusing to be ruled by fear.  Across the county, dedicated public servants are on the job - and more will be returning to work this week. Faith communities have come together in fellowship and prayer.  Families lined the streets for the annual children's Christmas parade--because we can't let terrorists change how we live our lives. Meanwhile, our men and women in uniform are stepping up our campaign to destroy ISIL.  Our airstrikes are hitting ISIL harder than ever, in Iraq and Syria.  We're taking out more of their fighters and leaders, their weapons, their oil tankers. Our Special Operations Forces are on the ground--because we're going to hunt down these terrorists wherever they try to hide.  In recent weeks, our strikes have taken out the ISIL finance chief, a terrorist leader in Somalia and the ISIL leader in Libya.  Our message to these killers is simple--we will find you, and justice will be done.       This week, we'll move forward on all fronts.  On Monday, I'll go to the Pentagon.  And there, I'll review our military campaign and how we can continue to accelerate our efforts.  Later in the week, I'll go to the National Counterterrorism Center.  There, I'll review our efforts--across our entire government--to prevent attacks and protect our homeland.  And this week, the Department of Homeland Security will update its alert system to ensure Americans get more information, including steps that you and your communities can take to be vigilant and to stay safe. In the wake of the attacks in Paris and San Bernardino, I know a lot of Americans are asking--"what can I do?"  First, as always, we have to stay vigilant.  If you see something that seems suspicious, say something to law enforcement.  Over the years, plots have been uncovered because someone saw something and spoke up.   As I said in my speech last weekend, one of the most important things we can do is to stay true to who we are as Americans.  Terrorists like ISIL are trying to divide us along lines of religion and background.  That's how they stoke fear.  That's how they recruit.  And just as Muslims around the world have to keep rejecting any twisted interpretation of Islam, all of us have to reject bigotry--in all of its forms.  I'll say it again, prejudice and discrimination helps ISIL and it undermines our national security. The good news is that Americans are coming together to reaffirm the core values that keep us strong.  Political leaders across the spectrum--Democrats and Republicans, liberals and conservatives--are standing up, forcefully, for freedom of religion.  Churches and synagogues are reaching out to local mosques--reminding us that we are all God's children.  Grateful citizens are saying thank you to our patriotic Muslim American service members and veterans.  Some of our greatest sports heroes have reminded us why they're true champions--and voices for tolerance and understanding.  Across the country, Americans are reaching out--to their Muslim friends, neighbors and coworkers--to let them know we're here for each other.  I think of the woman in Texas carrying a sign saying, "We love our Muslim neighbors." That's the message I hope every Muslim American hears--that we're all part of the same American family.  And it's a message all of us can deliver--parents to our children, teachers to their students, leaders in politics and business and entertainment.  Back in San Bernardino, people from across the community have joined in prayer vigils--Christians, Jews, Muslims and others.  They've sent a powerful message--we're all in this together.  That's the spirit we have to uphold.  That's what we can do--as Americans--united in defense of the country that we love.
. It's the most wonderful time of the year. Not just for spreading holiday cheer - but also for list makers. You've got wish lists; Santa's list; and of course, a blizzard of year-in-review lists. So I decided to get in on the action.   As a nation, we face big challenges. But in the spirit of 2015 retiree David Letterman, here - in no particular order - are my top 10 things that happened in 2015 that should make every American optimistic about 2016.  Number ten: The economy. Over the past 12 months, our businesses have created 2.5 million new jobs. In all, they've added 13.7 million new jobs over a 69-month streak of job growth. And the unemployment rate has fallen to 5 percent - the lowest it's been in almost eight years.  Number nine: More Americans are getting health coverage. The rate of the uninsured in America dropped below 10 percent for the first time ever. In all, 17.6 million people and climbing have gained coverage as the Affordable Care Act has taken effect. And don't forget, you can still sign up through January  31 st  at HealthCare.gov.  Number eight: America's global leadership on climate change. Last week, in Paris, nearly 200 countries came together to set the course for a low-carbon future. And it was only possible because America led with clean energy here at home and strong diplomacy around the world.   Number seven: Progress in the Americas. We turned the page on an outdated, half-century old policy by re-establishing diplomatic relations with Cuba and reopening embassies in both our countries, allowing us to build greater ties between Americans and Cubans.  Number six: Preventing the spread of nuclear weapons. We succeeded in forging a strong deal to stop Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon.  In fact, Iran has already dismantled thousands of centrifuges that enrich uranium.   Number five: Standing strong against terrorism.  Even as we continue to grieve over the attack in San Bernardino, we're leading a global coalition and hitting ISIL harder than ever.  In Syria and Iraq, ISIL is losing territory, and we're not going to stop until we destroy this terrorist organization.   Number four: A  21 st  century trade deal that makes sure our businesses can sell goods "Made in America" across the Asia-Pacific.  The Trans-Pacific Partnership is the strongest, most pro-worker, pro-environment trade agreement in our history. And it means that America - not China, not anyone else - will write the rules of the global economy for the century ahead.  Number three: A pair of Christmas miracles in Washington! This week, Congress passed a bipartisan budget that invests in middle-class priorities, keeps our military the strongest in the world, and takes the threat of shutdowns and manufactured crises off the table for 2016. Plus, I signed a bipartisan education bill into law to help our students graduate prepared for college and their future careers.  Number two: Love won. No matter who you are, here in America, you're free to marry the person you love, because the freedom to marry is now the law in all fifty states.  And the number one reason I'm optimistic going into 2016:  It's you--the American people. All of this progress is because of you--because of workers rolling up their sleeves and getting the job done, and entrepreneurs starting new businesses.  Because of teachers and health workers and parents--all of us taking care of each other.  Because of our incredible men and women in uniform, serving to protect us all.  Because, when we're united as Americans, there's nothing that we cannot do.  That's why it's has been a good year. And it's why I'm confident we'll keep achieving big things in the New Year. So happy holidays, everybody.
.  It's hard to believe, but it was seven years ago this week that one of Wall Street's biggest investment banks went bankrupt, triggering a meltdown on Wall Street and the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression.  And in the months that followed, millions of Americans lost their jobs, their homes, and the savings they'd worked so hard to build. Today's a different story.  Over the past five and a half years, our businesses have created more than 13 million new jobs.  The unemployment rate is lower than it's been in over seven years.  Manufacturing is growing.  Housing is bouncing back.  We've reduced our deficits by two-thirds.  And 16 million more Americans now know the security of health insurance.  This is your progress.  It's because of your hard work and sacrifice that America has come back from crisis faster than almost every other advanced nation on Earth.  We remain the safest, strongest bet in the world.  Of course, you might not know all that if you only listened to the bluster of political season, when it's in the interest of some politicians to paint America as dark and depressing as possible.  But I don't see it that way.  I've met too many Americans who prove, day in and day out, that this is a place where anything is possible.  Yes, we have a lot of work to do to rebuild a middle class that's had the odds stacked against it now for decades.  That's the thing about America - our work is never finished.  We always strive to be better - to perfect ourselves.   We just have to make the right choices.  And if Republicans want to help, they can choose, right now, to pass a budget that helps us grow our economy even faster, create jobs even faster, lift people's incomes and prospects even faster.  But they've only got until the end of the month to do it - or they'll shut down our government for the second time in two years.   Democrats are ready to sit down and negotiate with Republicans right now. But it should be over legitimate issues like how much do we invest in education, job training, and infrastructure - not unrelated ideological issues like Planned Parenthood.  We need to set our sights higher than that.  We need to reverse harmful cuts to middle-class economic priorities, close loopholes that benefit only a fortunate few at the top, and invest more in the things that help our entire economy grow.  There's nothing principled about the idea of another government shutdown.  There's nothing patriotic about denying the progress you've worked so hard to make.  America is great right now - not because of our government, or our wealth, or our power, but because of everyone who works hard every day to move this country forward.  Now Congress needs to work as hard as you do. Thanks, and have a great weekend.
.  Today, September 26 th , is "National Prescription Drug Take-Back Day."  It's a day where you can safely, conveniently, and responsibly dispose of expired and unwanted prescription drugs at collection sites in your community. Here's why this matters.  More Americans now die every year from drug overdoses than they do in car crashes.  And most of those deaths aren't due to drugs like cocaine or heroin - but rather prescription drugs.  In 2013 alone, overdoses from prescription pain medications killed more than 16,000 Americans.  And most young people who begin misusing prescription drugs don't buy them in some dark alley - they get them from the medicine cabinet.  If that's not a good enough reason to participate in "National Prescription Drug Take-Back Day," here's another.  Many prescription pain medications belong to the same class of drugs as heroin.  In fact, four in five heroin users started out by misusing prescription drugs.  And over the course of just one year, between 2013 and 2014, we saw a 33% increase in the number of heroin users.  All of this takes a terrible toll on too many families, in too many communities, all across the country - big and small, urban and rural.  It strains law enforcement and treatment programs.  It costs all of us - in so many different ways. That's why, four years ago, my Administration unveiled a Prescription Drug Abuse Prevention Plan.  We've been partnering with communities to combat overdoses, and we're seeing some promising results.  That's why the budget I put forward this year would build on those efforts.  It would make critical investments in things like drug monitoring programs, equipping more first responders to save more lives, and expanding medication-assisted treatment programs - including in our prisons. In fact, getting smarter about how we address substance use disorders is a vital part of reforming our criminal justice system.  Rather than keep spending billions of taxpayer dollars on needlessly long prison sentences for nonviolent drug offenders, we could save money and get better outcomes by getting treatment to those who need it.  And we could use some of the savings to make sure the brave men and women of law enforcement have the resources they need to go after drug kingpins and violent gangs, disrupt the flow of drugs into our country, and address the real threats to our communities.  With no other disease do we expect people to wait until they're a danger to themselves or others to self-diagnose and seek treatment.  So we should approach abuse as an opportunity to intervene, not incarcerate.  And we all have a role to play here.  Parents, we have to understand how important it is to talk to our kids, and to safely store medications in the house.  The medical community has to be engaged, too - because better prescribing practices will make a difference.  And as a country, we have to keep working to reduce drug use through evidence-based treatment, prevention, and recovery.  Because research shows it works.  Courageous Americans show it works, every day.  That's why the man I named to head the office of National Drug Control Policy - Michael Botticelli - is a man in long-term recovery himself.  He talks about it openly and honestly, precisely to strike down the shame and stigma that too often keep people from seeking care before it's too late. This is something I'll be talking about more in the weeks to come, in communities across the country.  Because it's a challenge we can solve if we work together. Thanks, and have a great weekend.
.  Next week marks seven years since a financial crisis on Wall Street that would usher in some hard years for working families on Main Street.  Soon after that, I took office.  And we set out to rebuild our economy on a new foundation for growth and prosperity by investing in things that grow our middle class - things like jobs, health care, and education. Today, our businesses have created more than 13 million new jobs over the last five and a half years.  The unemployment rate is the lowest it's been in more than seven years.  Another 16 million Americans have gained health insurance.  Our high school graduate rate is the highest it's ever been, and more people are graduating from college than ever before. We are coming back - and stronger. Still, in an economy that's increasingly based on knowledge and innovation, some higher education is the surest ticket to the middle class.  By the end of this decade, two in three job openings will require some higher education.  That's one reason why a degree from a two-year college will earn you $10,000 more each year than someone who only finished high school.  One study showed that a degree from a four-year university earns you $1 million more over the course of a lifetime. The country with the best-educated workforce in the world is going to win the 21 st  century economy.  I want that to be America.  But as college costs and student debt keep rising, the choices that Americans make when searching for and selecting a college have never been more important.  That's why everyone should be able to find clear, reliable, open data on college affordability and value - like whether they're likely to graduate, find good jobs, and pay off their loans.  Right now, however, many existing college rankings reward schools for spending more money and rejecting more students - at a time when America needs our colleges to focus on affordability and supporting all students who enroll.  That doesn't make sense, and it has to change.  So, today, my Administration is launching a new College Scorecard, designed with input from those who will use it the most - students, families, and counselors.  Americans will now have access to reliable data on every institution of higher education.  You'll be able to see how much each school's graduates earn, how much debt they graduate with, and what percentage of a school's students can pay back their loans - which will help all of us see which schools do the best job of preparing America for success.  And to reach more folks, we're working with partners in the academic, non-profit, and private sectors that will help families use this new data to navigate the complicated college process and make informed decisions.  The status quo serves some colleges and the companies that rank them just fine.  But it doesn't serve our students well - and that doesn't serve any of us well.  There are colleges dedicated to helping students of all backgrounds learn without saddling them with debt.  We should hold everybody to that standard.  Our economic future depends on it. This work is just beginning.  In the coming weeks and months, we'll continue to improve the Scorecard based on what we learn from students, parents, counselors, and colleges themselves.  The goal is to help everybody who's willing to work for a higher education search for and select a college that fits their goals.  Together, we can make sure that every student has the chance to get a great education and achieve their full potential.  Thanks, everybody.  And have a great weekend . Learn more:  The College Scorecard   Read the Fact Sheet
.  Yesterday, we learned that our businesses created another 118,000 new jobs in September.  That makes 67 straight months of job creation, and 13.2 million new jobs in all.  But we would be doing even better if we didn't have to keep dealing with crises in Congress every few months.  And especially at a time when the global economy is softening, our own growth could slow if Congress doesn't do away with harmful austerity measures. Now, on Wednesday, more than half of Republicans in Congress voted to shut down the government for the second time in two years.  Fortunately, there were enough votes in both parties to pass a last-minute bill to keep the government open for another ten weeks.  Unfortunately, that gimmick only sets up another shutdown threat two weeks before Christmas. Look, that's not the way America should operate.  It just kicks the can down the road without solving any problems or doing any long-term planning for the future.  And that's why I will not sign another shortsighted, short-term spending bill like the one Congress sent me this week.  Here's why.  A few years ago, both parties agreed to put in place harmful, automatic cuts that make no distinction between spending we don't need and spending we do.  Those cuts have actually kept our economy from growing faster.  Even worse, they're actually undermining the middle class.  Here's one example.  If we don't undo these mindless cuts, then next year, we'll be funding our kids' education at the same levels per pupil we did in the year 2000.  Compared to my budget, that would be like cutting federal funding for 4,500 schools, 17,500 teachers and aides, 1.9 million students.  That's not good for our kids or our economy.  It's a prescription for American decline.  And it shouldn't happen.  We should invest in things like education today, or we'll pay the price tomorrow. Congress should do its job, stop kicking the can down the road, and pass a serious budget rather than flirt with another shutdown.  A serious budget is one that keeps America strong through our military, our law enforcement; that keeps America generous through caring for our veterans and our seniors; that keeps America competitive by educating our kids and our workers. That's what I want to work with serious people in both parties to achieve.  Because that's how we'll build on the progress of 13 million new jobs, and help the middle class get ahead. Thanks everybody, and have a great weekend.
. I am fired up for the year that stretches out before us. That's because of what we've accomplished together over the past seven. Seven years ago, our businesses were losing 800,000 jobs a month. They've now created jobs for 69 straight months, driving the unemployment rate from a high of 10% down to 5%. Seven years ago, too many Americans went without health insurance. We've now covered more than 17 million people, dropping the rate of the uninsured below 10% for the very first time. Seven years ago, we were addicted to foreign oil. Now our oil imports have plummeted, our clean energy industry is booming, and America is a global leader in the fight against climate change. Seven years ago, there were only two states in America with marriage equality. And now there are 50. All of this progress is because of you. And we've got so much more to do. So my New Year's resolution is to move forward on our unfinished business as much as I can. And I'll be more frequently asking for your help. That's what this American project is all about. That's especially true for one piece of unfinished business, that's our epidemic of gun violence. Last month, we remembered the third anniversary of Newtown. This Friday, I'll be thinking about my friend Gabby Giffords, five years into her recovery from the shooting in Tucson. And all across America, survivors of gun violence and those who lost a child, a parent, a spouse to gun violence are forced to mark such awful anniversaries every single day. And yet Congress still hasn't done anything to prevent what happened to them from happening to other families. Three years ago, a bipartisan, commonsense bill would have required background checks for virtually everyone who buys a gun. Keep in mind, this policy was supported by some 90% of the American people. It was supported by a majority of NRA households. But the gun lobby mobilized against it. And the Senate blocked it. Since then, tens of thousands of our fellow Americans have been mowed down by gun violence. Tens of thousands. Each time, we're told that commonsense reforms like background checks might not have stopped the last massacre, or the one before that, so we shouldn't do anything. We know that we can't stop every act of violence. But what if we tried to stop even one? What if Congress did something - anything - to protect our kids from gun violence? A few months ago, I directed my team at the White House to look into any new actions I can take to help reduce gun violence. And on Monday, I'll meet with our Attorney General, Loretta Lynch, to discuss our options. Because I get too many letters from parents, and teachers, and kids, to sit around and do nothing. I get letters from responsible gun owners who grieve with us every time these tragedies happen; who share my belief that the Second Amendment guarantees a right to bear arms; and who share my belief we can protect that right while keeping an irresponsible, dangerous few from inflicting harm on a massive scale.
:  Merry Christmas, everybody! This is one of our favorite times of the year in the Obama household, filled with family and friends, warmth and good cheer. That's even true when I spend all night chasing Bo and Sunny away from the cookies we leave for Santa. It's also my favorite weekly address of the year, because I'm joined by a special holiday guest star: Mrs. Obama.  THE FIRST LADY:  Merry Christmas, everyone. Here at the White House, we've spent the past month helping everyone get into the holiday spirit. Our theme this year is "A Timeless Tradition," and the decorations in each room reflect some of our country's most cherished pastimes - from saluting our troops and their families to helping children dream big dreams for their future. And we've invited thousands of families here to the White House to enjoy the festivities - because there's no holiday tradition more timeless than opening our doors to others.  THE PRESIDENT:  Today, like millions of Americans and Christians around the world, our family celebrates the birth of Jesus and the values He lived in his own life. Treating one another with love and compassion. Caring for those on society's margins: the sick and the hungry, the poor and the persecuted, the stranger in need of shelter - or simply an act of kindness. That's the spirit that binds us together - not just as Christians, but as Americans of all faiths. It's what the holidays are about: coming together as one American family to celebrate our blessings and the values we hold dear. During this season, we also honor all who defend those values in our country's uniform. Every day, the brave men and women of our military serve to keep us safe - and so do their families.  THE FIRST LADY:  So as we sing carols and open presents, as we win snowball fights...  THE PRESIDENT:  Or lose snowball fights...  THE FIRST LADY:  Let's also take time to pay tribute to those who have given our country so much. Go to JoiningForces.gov to see how you can serve the troops, veterans, and military families in your community. And together, we can show them just how grateful we are for their sacrifice. That's a tradition we all can embrace - today and every day.  THE PRESIDENT:  So on behalf of Malia, Sasha, Bo, Sunny, and everyone here at the White House - Merry Christmas. May God bless our troops and their families. And may God bless you all with peace and joy in the year ahead.
.  On Tuesday, I gave my final State of the Union Address.  And a focus was this: how do we make the new economy work better for everyone, not just those at the top?  After the worst economic crisis of our lifetimes, we're in the midst of the longest streak of private-sector job growth in our history.  More than 14 million new jobs.  An unemployment rate cut in half.  At the same time, our economy continues to go through profound changes that began long before the Great Recession hit.  It's changed to the point where even when folks have jobs; even when the economy is growing; it's harder for hardworking families to pull themselves out of poverty, harder for young people to start out on their careers, and tougher for workers to retire when they want to.  That's a big part of the reason a lot of working families are feeling anxious.  And it offends our fundamentally American belief that everybody who works hard should be able to get ahead. That's why we've been fighting so hard to give families more opportunity and more security - by working to create more good jobs, invest in our middle class, and help working people get a raise.  It's what the Affordable Care Act is all about - filling in the gaps in employer-based care so that when somebody loses a job, or goes back to school, or starts that new business, they still have health care.  And it's why I believe we've got to take steps to modernize our unemployment insurance system.  If a hardworking American loses her job, regardless of what state she lives in, we should make sure she can get unemployment insurance and some help to retrain for her next job.  If she's been unemployed for a while, we should reach out to her and connect her with career counseling.  And if she finds a new job that doesn't pay as much as her old one, we should offer some wage insurance that helps her pay her bills.  Under my plan, experienced workers who now make less than $50,000 could replace half of their lost wages - up to $10,000 over two years.  It's a way to give families some stability and encourage folks to rejoin the workforce - because we shouldn't just be talking about unemployment; we should be talking about re-employment.  That's when America works best - when everyone has opportunity; when everyone has some security; and when everyone can contribute to this country we love.  That's how we make sure that hardworking families can get ahead.  And that's what I'll be fighting for with every last day of my presidency.  Thanks everybody.  Have a great weekend.
.  As I said in my State of the Union address, we live in a time of extraordinary change - change that's affecting the way we live and the way we work. New technology replaces any job where work can be automated.  Workers need more skills to get ahead.  These changes aren't new, and they're only going to accelerate.  So the question we have to ask ourselves is, "How can we make sure everyone has a fair shot at success in this new economy?" The answer to that question starts with education. That's why my Administration has encouraged states to raise standards.  We've cut the digital divide in our classrooms in half.  We've worked with Congress to pass a bipartisan bill to set the expectation that every student should graduate from high school ready for college and a good job.  And thanks to the hard work of students, teachers, and parents across the country, our high school graduation rate is at an all-time high. Now we have to make sure all our kids are equipped for the jobs of the future - which means not just being able to work with computers, but developing the analytical and coding skills to power our innovation economy.  Today's auto mechanics aren't just sliding under cars to change the oil; they're working on machines that run on as many as 100 million lines of code.  That's 100 times more than the Space Shuttle.  Nurses are analyzing data and managing electronic health records.  Machinists are writing computer programs.  And workers of all kinds need to be able to figure out how to break a big problem into smaller pieces and identify the right steps to solve it. In the new economy, computer science isn't an optional skill - it's a basic skill, right along with the three "Rs."  Nine out of ten parents want it taught at their children's schools.  Yet right now, only about a quarter of our K through 12 schools offer computer science.  Twenty-two states don't even allow it to count toward a diploma.  So I've got a plan to help make sure all our kids get an opportunity to learn computer science, especially girls and minorities.  It's called Computer Science For All.  And it means just what it says - giving every student in America an early start at learning the skills they'll need to get ahead in the new economy.  First, I'm asking Congress to provide funding over the next three years so that our elementary, middle, and high schools can provide opportunities to learn computer science for all students.  Second, starting this year, we're leveraging existing resources at the National Science Foundation and the Corporation for National and Community Service to train more great teachers for these courses.  And third, I'll be pulling together governors, mayors, business leaders, and tech entrepreneurs to join the growing bipartisan movement around this cause.  Americans of all kinds - from the Spanish teacher in Queens who added programming to her classes to the young woman in New Orleans who worked with her Police Chief to learn code and share more data with the community - are getting involved to help young people learn these skills.  And just today, states like Delaware and Hawaii, companies like Google and SalesForce, and organizations like Code.org have made commitments to help more of our kids learn these skills.  That's what this is all about - each of us doing our part to make sure all our young people can compete in a high-tech, global economy.  They're the ones who will make sure America keeps growing, keeps innovating, and keeps leading the world in the years ahead.  And they're the reason I've never been more confident about our future.  Thanks everybody, and have a great weekend.
.  Seven years ago, the American auto industry was on the brink of collapse.  Plants were closing.  Hundreds of thousands of workers were getting laid off from jobs that had been their ticket to a middle-class life.  And as the pain spread across the country, another one million Americans would have lost their jobs in the middle of the worst economic crisis of our lifetimes. Some said it was too late to turn things around.  But I refused to turn my back on so many of the workers that I'd met.  Instead, I placed my bet on American workers.  I placed my bet on American manufacturing.  In exchange for help, we demanded responsibility.  We said the auto industry would have to truly change, not just pretend that it did.  We got labor and management to settle their differences.  We got the industry to retool and restructure.  Everyone had some skin in the game. Our plan wasn't popular.  Critics said it was a "road to socialism," or a "disaster" waiting to happen.  But I'd make that bet again any day of the week.  Because today, the American auto industry is back.  Since our plan went into effect, our automakers have added more than 640,000 new jobs.  We've cut the Detroit-area unemployment rate by more than half.  The Big Three automakers are raising wages.  Seven years ago, auto sales hit a 27-year low.  Last year, they hit an all-time high.    Later this month, I'll visit the Detroit Auto Show to see this progress firsthand.  Because I believe that every American should be proud of what our most iconic industry has done.  It's not unlike what America overall has done these past seven years.  Our businesses are now on a 70-month streak of job creation, with more than 14 million new jobs in all.  We've revamped our schools and the way we pay for college.  We've made historic investments in clean energy and put ourselves on a path to a low-carbon future.  We've brought more than 17 million Americans into our health care system, seen health care prices grow at the lowest rate in fifty years, and covered more than 90 percent of our people for the very first time.  We've even cut our deficits by nearly 75 percent in the process. The point is America can do anything.  Even in times of great challenge and change, our future is entirely up to us.  That's been on my mind while I'm writing my final State of the Union Address.  And on Tuesday, I'm going to talk about the choices we have to make to set this country firmly on an even better, brighter course for decades to come.  Thanks, and have a great weekend.
. One of the things that makes America great is our passion for innovation - that spirit of discovery and entrepreneurship that helps us meet any challenge. One of the greatest challenges of our time is climate change. Over the last seven years, we've made historic investments in clean energy that helped private sector companies create tens of thousands of good jobs. And today, clean power from the wind or the sun is actually cheaper in many communities than dirtier, conventional power.  It's helped grow our economy and cut our total carbon pollution more than any other country on earth. That leadership helped bring nearly 200 nations together in Paris around the most ambitious climate agreement in history. And in Paris, we also launched one of the most important partnerships ever assembled to accelerate this kind of clean energy innovation around the world. Investors and business leaders including Bill Gates, Meg Whitman, and Mark Zuckerberg joined us, pledging their own money to help advance new technologies to the market.  That's important because we'll only meet this challenge if the private sector helps lead the way.  As I said in my State of the Union address, rather than subsidize the past, we should invest in the future. That's why the budget I will send to Congress this Tuesday will double funding for clean energy research and development by 2020. This will include new investments to help the private sector create more jobs faster, lower the cost of clean energy faster, and help clean, renewable power outcompete dirty fuels in every state. And while Republicans in Congress are still considering their position on climate change, many of them realize that clean energy is an incredible source of good-paying jobs for their constituents. That's why we were able to boost clean energy research and development in last year's budget agreement. And I hope they support my plan to double that kind of investment. Because it's making a difference across the country. In Idaho, our Battery Test Center is helping electric cars run longer on a single charge. In Ohio, entrepreneurs are pioneering new ways to harness wind power from the Great Lakes. In Tennessee, researchers are partnering with utilities to boost storage and solar power to create a more resilient electric grid. The point is, all across the country, folks are putting their differences aside to face this challenge as one. Washington should do the same. That's how we're going to solve this challenge - together. And that's how we're going to give our kids and grandkids the future they deserve - one with a safe, secure, and prosperous planet.   Thanks everybody, and have a great weekend.
.  One of the things that makes America so strong is our spirit of innovation.  Our drive to invent and harness new technologies to tackle our greatest challenges.  It's how we won the race to invent the lightbulb and the Internet; it's why we were first to the Moon and Mars.  It's why I keep models of American inventions like the telegraph in the Oval Office.  It's a daily reminder of the genius that's embedded in our DNA; the way we've always shaped the future through our ideas and discoveries. That's truer than ever today, with the constant stream of new apps and tools and data that are still changing the way we live - from getting a ride to paying our bills to developing smarter ways to combat climate change.  That's why, next week, I'll travel to Austin, Texas, to visit South by Southwest.  It's an annual gathering of some of our most creative thinkers, coders, makers, and entrepreneurs from across the country.  And while I'm there, I'm going to ask everyone for ideas and technologies that can help update our government and our democracy to be as modern and dynamic as America itself.  This has been a goal of mine since before I was President.  On my campaign in 2008, we saw how technology could bring people together and help them engage as citizens in their own communities.  So when I came to the White House, I wanted apply that experience to the federal government.  It hasn't always been easy.  And we've had some bumps along the way.  But we've also made good progress.  Over the past few years, for example, we've done something that government never has.  We asked some of the sharpest minds from companies in Silicon Valley and across the country to come help us modernize the federal government for the way we live today.  And they came ready to serve, tackling some of our biggest challenges - like high-tech special ops units. These teams are partnering with the government's existing policy and technical experts to re-imagine the way we do business and deliver services that work better and cost less.  Already, we've made it easier for students to find the college that's right for them.  For immigrants to track the green card and naturalization process online.  For veterans to access their medical records. And yes, after an initial false start, we've made it much easier for tens of millions of Americans to compare and buy health insurance and the peace of mind that goes with it.  That's what this is all about - making sure our government of the people and by the people works better for the people in the 21 st  century.  It's about Americans working together to make a real difference in people's lives.  Because the easiest thing to do is to blame government for our problems.  Some people have made a career out of that.  But our founders trusted us with the keys to this system of self-government because it's the best tool we've got to settle our differences and solve our collective challenges.  And it's only as good as we make it.  That's why I'm going to Austin and South by Southwest - to keep asking everyone from all walks of life, working inside or outside of government, to help us make this democracy even stronger.  And I hope you join us.  Thanks everybody, have a great weekend.
's attention turns to a competition that's as heated as it is historic.  People pack arenas and wave flags.  Journalists judge every move and overanalyze every misstep.  Sometimes we're let down, but more often we're lifted up.  And just when we think we've seen it all, we see something happen in a race that we've never seen before. I'm talking, of course, about the Summer Olympics. This month, Rio is hosting the first-ever Games held in South America - and we're ready to root on Team USA.  We're excited to see who will inspire us this time; whose speed will remind us of Jesse Owens; whose feats will remind us of Bob Beamon's amazing jump?  Which young American will leave us awestruck, the way a teenager named Kerri Strug did when she stuck that landing, and when another kid named Cassius Clay gave the world its first glimpse of greatness?  Who will match Mary Lou Retton's perfection; or pull off an upset like Rulon Gardner's; or dominate like the Dream Team? That's why we watch.  And we have a lot to look forward to this year.  Team USA reminds the world why America always sets the gold standard: We're a nation of immigrants that finds strength in our diversity and unity in our national pride.  Our athletes hail from 46 states, D.C., and the Virgin Islands.  Our team boasts the most women who have ever competed for any nation at any Olympic Games.  It includes active-duty members of our military and our veterans.  We've got basketball players who stand nearly seven feet tall and a gymnast who's 4-foot-8.  And Team USA spans generations: a few athletes who are almost as old as I am, and one born just a year before my younger daughter. Our roster includes a gymnast from Texas who's so trailblazing, they named a flip after her.  A young woman who persevered through a tough childhood in Flint, Michigan, to become the first American woman to win gold in the boxing ring.  And a fencing champion from suburban Jersey who'll become the first American Olympian to wear a hijab while competing.  And on our Paralympic team, we're honored to be represented by a Navy veteran who lost his sight while serving in Afghanistan and continues to show us what courage looks like every time he jumps in the pool. When you watch these Games, remember that it's about so much more than the moments going by in a flash.  Think about the countless hours these athletes put in, knowing it could mean the difference in a split-second victory that earns them a lifetime of pride, and gives us enduring memories.  It's about the character it takes to train your heart out, even when no one's watching.  Just hard work, focus, and a dream.  That's the Olympic spirit - and it's the American spirit, too In our Olympians, we recognize that no one accomplishes greatness alone.  Even solo athletes have a coach beside them and a country behind them.  In a season of intense politics, let's cherish this opportunity to come together around one flag.  In a time of challenge around the world, let's appreciate the peaceful competition and sportsmanship we'll see, the hugs and high-fives and the empathy and understanding between rivals who know we share a common humanity.  Let's honor the courage it takes, not only to cross the finish line first, but merely to stand in the starting blocks.  And let's see in ourselves the example they set - proving that no matter where you're from, with determination and discipline, there's nothing you can't achieve. That idea - that you can succeed no matter where you're from - is especially true this year.  We'll cheer on athletes on the first-ever Olympic Refugee Team: Ten competitors from the Congo, Ethiopia, South Sudan, and Syria who personify endurance. To all of our Olympic and Paralympic athletes wearing the red, white, and blue - know that your country couldn't be prouder of you.  We admire all the work you've done to get to Rio and everything you'll do there.  Thank you for showing the world the best of America.  And know that when you get up on that podium, we'll be singing the National Anthem - and maybe even shedding a tear - right alongside you.  Now go bring home the gold!
.  One of the most urgent challenges of our time is climate change.  We know that 2015 surpassed 2014 as the warmest year on record - and 2016 is on pace to be even hotter.   When I took office, I said this was something we couldn't kick down the road any longer - that our children's future depended on our action.  So we got to work, and over the past seven-and-a-half years, we've made ambitious investments in clean energy, and ambitious reductions in our carbon emissions.  We've multiplied wind power threefold.  We've multiplied solar power more than thirtyfold.  In parts of America, these clean power sources are finally cheaper than dirtier, conventional power.  And carbon pollution from our energy sector is at its lowest level in 25 years, even as we're continuing to grow our economy. We've invested in energy efficiency, and we're slashing carbon emissions from appliances, homes, and businesses - saving families money on their energy bills.  We're reforming how we manage federal coal resources, which supply roughly 40% of America's coal.  We've set the first-ever national standards limiting the amount of carbon pollution power plants can release into the sky.  We also set standards to increase the distance our cars and light trucks can go on a gallon of gas every year through 2025.  And they're working.  At a time when we've seen auto sales surge, manufacturers are innovating and bringing new technology to market faster than expected.  Over 100 cars, SUVs, and pick-up trucks on the market today already meet our vehicles standards ahead of schedule.  And we've seen a boom in the plug-in electric vehicle market - with more models, lower battery costs, and more than 16,000 charging stations.  But we're not done yet. In the weeks and months ahead, we'll release a second round of fuel efficiency standards for heavy-duty vehicles. We'll take steps to meet the goal we set with Canada and Mexico to achieve 50 percent clean power across North America by 2025.  And we'll continue to protect our lands and waters so that our kids and grandkids can enjoy our most beautiful spaces for generations.  There's still much more to do.  But there's no doubt that America has become a global leader in the fight against climate change.  Last year, that leadership helped us bring nearly 200 nations together in Paris around the most ambitious agreement in history to save the one planet we've got.  That's not something to tear up - it's something to build upon.  And if we keep pushing, and leading the world in the right direction, there's no doubt that, together, we can leave a better, cleaner, safer future for our children.  Thanks, everybody.  Have a great weekend.
.  She was, in her words, "extremely concerned" about the Zika virus, and what it might mean for other pregnant women like her. I understand that concern.  As a father, Ashley's letter has stuck with me, and it's why we've been so focused on the threat of the Zika virus.  So today, I just want to take a few minutes to let you know what we've been doing in response, and to talk about what more we can all do. Since late last year, when the most recent outbreak of Zika started popping up in other countries, federal agencies like the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have been preparing for it to arrive in the U.S.  In February - more than six months ago - I asked Congress for the emergency resources that public health experts say we need to combat Zika.  That includes things like mosquito control, tracking the spread of the virus, accelerating new diagnostic tests and vaccines, and monitoring women and babies with the virus.  Republicans in Congress did not share Ashley's "extreme concern," nor that of other Americans expecting children.  They said no.  Instead, we were forced to use resources we need to keep fighting Ebola, cancer, and other diseases.  We took that step because we have a responsibility to protect the American people.  But that's not a sustainable solution.  And Congress has been on a seven-week recess without doing anything to protect Americans from the Zika virus. So my Administration has done what we can on our own.  Our primary focus has been protecting pregnant women and families planning to have children.  For months now, the CDC has been working closely with officials in Florida and other states.  NIH and other agencies have moved aggressively to develop a vaccine.  And we're working with the private sector to develop more options to test for and prevent infection.  For weeks, a CDC emergency response team has been on the ground in South Florida, working alongside the excellent public health officials there - folks who have a strong track record of responding aggressively to the mosquitoes that carry viruses like Zika.  They know what they're doing. Still, there's a lot more everybody can and should do.  And that begins with some basic facts. Zika spreads mainly through the bite of a certain mosquito.  Most infected people don't show any symptoms.  But the disease can cause brain defects and other serious problems when pregnant women become infected.  Even if you're not pregnant, you can play a role in protecting future generations.  Because Zika can be spread through unprotected sex, it's not just women who need to be careful - men do too.  That includes using condoms properly. If you live in or travel to an area where Zika has been found, protect yourself against the mosquitoes that carry this disease.  Use insect repellant - and keep using it for a few weeks, even after you come home.  Wear long sleeves and long pants to make bites less likely.  Stay in places with air conditioning and window screens.  If you can, get rid of standing water where mosquitoes breed.  And to learn more about how to keep your family safe, just visit CDC.gov. But every day that Republican leaders in Congress wait to do their job, every day our experts have to wait to get the resources they need - that has real-life consequences.  Weaker mosquito-control efforts.  Longer wait times to get accurate diagnostic results.  Delayed vaccines.  It puts more Americans at risk.  One Republican Senator has said that "There is no such thing as a Republican position on Zika or Democrat position on Zika because these mosquitoes bite everyone."  I agree.  We need more Republicans to act that way because this is more important than politics.  It's about young mothers like Ashley.  Today, her new baby Savannah is healthy and happy.  That's priority number one.  And that's why Republicans in Congress should treat Zika like the threat that it is and make this their first order of business when they come back to Washington after Labor Day.  That means working in a bipartisan way to fully fund our Zika response.  A fraction of the funding won't get the job done.  You can't solve a fraction of a disease.  Our experts know what they're doing.  They just need the resources to do it.  So make your voices heard.  And as long as I'm President, we'll keep doing everything we can to slow the spread of this virus, and put our children's futures first.  Thanks everybody.
.  Before you fire up the barbecue for the long weekend, I want to talk a little bit about the reason we get to celebrate Labor Day - and that's the labor movement that helped build this country and our middle class. For generations, every time the economy changed, hardworking Americans marched and organized and joined unions to demand not simply a bigger paycheck for themselves, but better conditions and more security for the folks working next to them, too.  Their efforts are why we can enjoy things like the 40-hour workweek, overtime pay, and a minimum wage.  Their efforts are why we can depend on health insurance, Social Security, Medicare, and retirement plans.  All of that progress is stamped with the union label.  All of that progress was fueled with a simple belief:  that our economy works better when it works for everybody. That's the spirit that's made the progress of these past seven and a half years possible.  We've rescued our economy from another depression, cut our unemployment rate in half, and unleashed the longest string total job growth on record.  And we've focused on making sure that the gains of a growing economy don't just flow to a few at the top, but to everybody.  It's why we took action to help millions of workers finally collect the overtime pay they've earned.  It's why I issued a call to raise the minimum wage, and when Congress ignored that call, 18 states and the District of Columbia, plus another 51 cities and counties went ahead and gave their workers a raise.  It's why the very first bill I signed was the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act; why we gave paid sick days to federal contractors; why we've fought for worker safety and the right to organize.  And we've made good progress.  For a few years after the recession, the top one percent did capture almost all income gains.  But that share has been cut by almost half.  Last year, income for everybody else grew at the fastest pace since the 1990s.  And another 20 million Americans know the financial security of health insurance. I'll be the first to say we've got more work to do in the years ahead.  Now, I know we're in the heat of a more raucous political season than usual.  But we can't get so distracted by the latest bluster that we lose sight of the policies that will actually help working families get ahead.  Because the truth is, that's what's caused some of the frustration that's roiling our politics right now - too many working folks still feel left behind by an economy that's constantly changing.  So as a country, we've got some choices to make.  Do we want to be a country where the typical woman working full-time earns 79 cents for every dollar a man makes - or one where they earn equal pay for equal work?  Do we want a future where inequality rises as union membership keeps falling - or one where wages are rising for everybody and workers have a say in their prospects?  Are we a people who just talk about family values while remaining the only developed nation that doesn't offer its workers paid maternity leave - or are we a people who actually value families, and make paid family leave an economic priority for working parents? These are the kinds of choices in front of us.  And if we're going to restore the sense that hard work is rewarded with a fair shot to get ahead, we're going to have to follow the lead of all those who came before us.  That means standing up not just for ourselves, but for the father clocking into the plant, the sales clerk working long and unpredictable hours, or the mother riding the bus to work across town, even on Labor Day - folks who work as hard as we do.  And it means exercising our rights to speak up in the workplace, to join a union, and above all, to vote. That's the legacy we celebrate on Labor Day.  And I'm confident that that's the legacy that we'll build upon in the years ahead. Thanks everybody.  Happy Labor Day.  Enjoy the long weekend.
.  It's now been 45 days since I nominated Judge Merrick Garland to the Supreme Court.  Judge Garland is a man of experience, integrity, and unimpeachable qualifications.  Judge Garland is someone who Senate Republicans are on record saying is "a man of accomplishment and keen intellect;" a man who's "honest and capable;" a man whose "reputation is beyond reproach."  Those are all quotes from Republicans in the Senate. But so far, most Senate Republicans have refused to even meet with Judge Garland.  Which means they've also refused to do their job and hold a hearing on his nomination, or an up-or-down vote.  But they've still found time to head home for recess over the next week. This is an abdication of the Senate's responsibility.  Every Supreme Court nominee since 1875 who hasn't withdrawn from the process has received a hearing or a vote.  For over 40 years, there's been an average of 67 days between a nomination and a hearing.  This time should be no different.  This is not about partisan politics - it's about upholding the institutions that make our democracy work.  There's a reason Judge Garland has earned the respect of people from both political parties.  As a young lawyer, he left a lucrative private firm to work in public service.  He went to oversee the federal response to the Oklahoma City bombing.  For the last 19 years, Judge Garland has served on the D.C. Circuit Court - often called "the Second Highest Court in the Land" - and for the past three years, he's served as that court's Chief Judge.  In fact, Judge Merrick Garland has more federal judicial experience than any other Supreme Court nominee in history.  With a brilliant mind, a kind spirit, and a good heart, he has dedicated his life to protecting our rights, and ensuring that the voices of everyday Americans are heard. So there is absolutely no reason for Republican Senators to deny him the basic courtesy of a hearing and a vote - the same courtesy that has been extended to others.  This refusal to treat a Supreme Court nomination with the seriousness it deserves is what makes people so cynical about Washington.  That's why poll after poll shows a majority of Americans think Senate Republicans should do their job; give Judge Garland a hearing; and give Judge Garland a vote. For all of our political differences, Americans understand that what unites us is far greater than what divides us.  And in the middle of a volatile political season, it is more important than ever that we fulfill our duties - in good faith - as public servants.  The Supreme Court must remain above partisan politics.  I've done my job - I nominated someone as qualified as Merrick Garland.  Now it's time for the Senate to do their job.  Give Judge Garland a hearing.  Give Judge Garland an up-or-down vote.  Treat him - and our democracy - with the respect they deserve.  Thanks for listening, and have a great weekend.
.  In our house, everybody knows that President is only the third-most important job in the family.  So this weekend, I'm going to take a little extra time to say thank you to Michelle for the remarkable way she does the most important job: being a mom.  And I'm going to give extra thanks to my mother-in-law for the role model she's always been to Michelle and the countless selfless ways in which she's helped Michelle and me raise Malia and Sasha.  I am incredibly lucky to have women who help me raise, love, and look after our girls. I hope you'll also take a moment to say thank you to the women in your life who love you in that special way mothers do.  Biological moms, adoptive moms, and foster moms; single moms, grandmoms and godmothers; aunts and mentors - whomever you think of when you think of Mother's Day.  Or take a moment, like I will, to remember the moms who raised us, whose big hearts sustained us, and whom we miss every day, no matter how old we get. Giving flowers is always a good idea.  But I hope that on this Mother's Day, we'll recommit ourselves to doing more than that: Through deeds that match our words, let's give mothers the respect they deserve, give all women the equality they deserve, and give all parents the support they need in their most important roles. That includes paid maternity and paternity leave, sick leave, accommodations for workers who are pregnant, good health care, affordable child care, flexibility at work, equal pay, and a decent minimum wage.  We ask our mothers to do more than their fair share of just about everything.  Making sure they're treated fairly is the least we can do. The idea of setting aside a Sunday in May for our mothers became an official holiday with a Congressional resolution a little more than 100 years ago.  They did it on May 8 - the same day we'll celebrate Mother's Day this year.  If Congress can make a holiday, surely they can back it up with the things that give it meaning.  After all, that's what my mother taught me.  I couldn't just say I was going to do the right thing, or say I agreed with it on principle.  I had to actually do it. So this Mother's Day, say thank you.  Say, "I love you."  And let's make sure we show that gratitude and appreciation through acts of respect throughout the year.  No one deserves that more than our moms. Happy Mother's Day, and have a great weekend.
:   Hi, everybody.  I've got a special guest with me this week - Macklemore.  For those of you who don't share the same love [i]  for hip-hop, he's a Grammy-winning artist - but he's also an advocate who's giving voice to a disease we too often just whisper about: the disease of addiction.   MACKLEMORE:   Hey, everybody.  I'm here with President Obama because I take this personally.  I abused prescription drugs and battled addiction.  If I hadn't gotten the help I needed when I needed it, I might not be here today.  And I want to help others facing the same challenges I did.  THE PRESIDENT:   Drug overdoses now take more lives every year than traffic accidents.  Deaths from opioid overdoses have tripled since 2000.  A lot of the time, they're from legal drugs prescribed by a doctor.  So addiction doesn't always start in some dark alley - it often starts in a medicine cabinet.  In fact, a new study released this month found that 44 percent of Americans know someone who has been addicted to prescription pain killers.  MACKLEMORE:   I didn't just know someone - I lost someone.  My friend Kevin overdosed on painkillers when he was just 21 years old.  Addiction is like any other disease - it doesn't discriminate.  It doesn't care what color you are, whether you're a guy or a girl, rich or poor, whether you live in the inner-city, a suburb, or rural America.  This doesn't just happen to other people's kids or in some other neighborhood.  It can happen to any of us.   THE PRESIDENT:   That's why just talking about this crisis isn't enough - we need to get treatment to more people who need it.  My administration is working with communities to reduce overdose deaths, including with medication.  We're working with law enforcement to help people get into treatment instead of jail.  And under Obamacare, health plans in the Marketplace have to include coverage for treatment.  MACKLEMORE:   I know recovery isn't easy or quick, but along with the 12-step program, treatment has saved my life.  Recovery works - and we need our leaders in Washington fund it and people know how to find it.  THE PRESIDENT:  We all need to do more to make that happen.  I've asked Congress to expand access to recovery services, and to give first responders the tools they need to treat overdoses before it's too late.  This week, the House passed several bills about opioids - but unless they also make actual investments in more treatment, it won't get Americans the help they need.  On top of funding, doctors also need more training about the power of the pain medication they prescribe, and the risks they carry.  Another way our country can help those suffering in private is to make this conversation public.  MACKLEMORE:   When you're going through it, it's hard to imagine there could be anything worse than addiction.  But shame and the stigma associated with the disease keeps too many people from seeking the help they need.  Addiction isn't a personal choice or a personal failing.  And sometimes it takes more than a strong will to get better - it takes a strong community and accessible resources.    THE PRESIDENT:   The good news is, there's hope.  When we talk about opioid abuse as the public health problem it is, more people will seek the help they need.  More people will find the strength to recover, just like Macklemore and millions of Americans have.  We'll see fewer preventable deaths and fewer broken families.   MACKLEMORE:   We have to tell people who need help that it's OK to ask for it.  We've got to make sure they know where to get it.   THE PRESIDENT:   We all have a role to play.  Even if we haven't fought this battle in our own lives, there's a good chance we know someone who has, or who is.   MACKLEMORE:   President Obama and I just had a powerful conversation here at the White House about opioid abuse, and what we can do about it.  You can catch it this summer on MTV.  And to find treatment in your area, call 1-800-662-HELP.  THE PRESIDENT:  Thanks, and have a great weekend.  [i]  "Same Love" is the title of Macklemore's hit 2012 song about marriage equality.
- Michelle, Malia, Sasha and Bo - I want to wish everyone a very happy Thanksgiving. For us, like so many of you, this is a day full of family and friends; food and football.  It's a day to fight the overwhelming urge to take a nap - at least until after dinner.  But most of all, it's a time to give thanks for each other, and for the incredible bounty we enjoy. That's especially important this year.  As a nation, we've just emerged from a campaign season that was passionate, noisy, and vital to our democracy.  But it also required us to make choices - and sometimes those choices led us to focus on what sets us apart instead of what ties us together; on what candidate we support instead of what country we belong to. Thanksgiving is a chance to put it all in perspective - to remember that, despite our differences, we are, and always will be, Americans first and foremost.  Today we give thanks for blessings that are all too rare in this world.  The ability to spend time with the ones we love; to say what we want; to worship as we please; to know that there are brave men and women defending our freedom around the globe; and to look our children in the eye and tell them that, here in America, no dream is too big if they're willing to work for it. We're also grateful that this country has always been home to Americans who see these blessings not simply as gifts to enjoy, but as opportunities to give back.  Americans who believe we have a responsibility to look out for those less fortunate - to pull each other up and move forward together. Right now, as we prepare to gather around our dinner tables, there are families in the northeast who don't have that luxury.  Many of them have lost everything to Hurricane Sandy - homes, possessions, even loved ones.  And it will be a long time before life goes back to normal. But in the midst of so much tragedy, there are also glimmers of hope.  Over the last few weeks, we've seen FEMA personnel, National Guard and first responders working around the clock in hard-hit communities.  We've seen hospital workers using their lunch breaks to distribute supplies.  Families offering up extra bedrooms.  The fire department advertising free hot showers.  Buses full of volunteers coming from hundreds of miles away.  Neighbors sharing whatever they have - food, water, electricity - and saying again and again how lucky they are to have a roof over their heads. It would have been easy for these folks to do nothing - to worry about themselves and leave the rest to someone else.  But that's not who we are.  That's not what we do.  As Americans, we are a bold, generous, big-hearted people.  When our brothers and sisters are in need, we roll up our sleeves and get to work - not for the recognition or the reward, but because it's the right thing to do.  Because there but for the grace of God go I.  And because here in America, we rise or fall together, as one nation and one people. That's something to be grateful for - today and every day.  So to all the Americans doing your part to make our world a better place - it is my privilege to serve as your President.  To all our servicemembers - it is my honor to be your Commander in Chief.  And from our family to yours, happy Thanksgiving.
.  It's now been four years since a crisis that began on Wall Street spread to Main Street, hammering middle-class families and ultimately costing our economy 9 million jobs. Since then, we've fought our way back.  Our businesses have added more than 5 million new jobs.  The unemployment rate has fallen to the lowest level since I took office.  Home values are rising again.  And our assembly lines are humming once more.     And to make sure America never goes through a crisis like that again, we passed tough new Wall Street reform to end taxpayer-funded bailouts for good.  Wall Street reform also created the first-ever independent consumer watchdog, whose sole job is to look out for you. That means making sure you've got all the information you need to make important financial decisions like buying a home or paying for college.  And it means going after anyone who tries to take advantage of you, or rip you off. Starting this month, that includes the folks who come up with your credit score. If you haven't checked out your credit score recently, you should.  It can have a major impact on your life.  It can determine whether or not you qualify for a loan or what kind of interest you have to pay.  It can even affect your chances at renting an apartment or getting a job. But here's the thing: the companies that put your credit score together can make mistakes.  They may think you had a loan or a credit card that was never yours.  They may think you were late making payments when you were on time.  And when they mess up, you're the one who suffers.  Until this week, if you had a complaint, you took it to the company.  Sometimes they listened.  Sometimes they didn't.  But that was pretty much it.  They were your only real hope.  Not anymore.  If you have a complaint about your credit score that hasn't been properly addressed, you can go to consumerfinance.gov/complaint and let the consumer watchdog know.  Not only will they bring your complaint directly to the company in question, they'll give you a tracking number, so you can check back and see exactly what's being done on your behalf.  And fixing your credit score isn't the only thing they can help with.  If you're opening a bank account, trying to get a student loan, or applying for a credit card and something doesn't seem right, you can let them know and they'll check it out. If you're looking to buy a home, and you want to know if you're getting a fair deal on your mortgage, you can give them a call and they'll get you an answer.  Their only mission is to fight for you.  And when needed, they'll take action.  For example, alongside other regulators, they recently ordered three big credit card companies to return more than $400 million to folks who were deceived or misled into buying things they didn't want or didn't understand. That's what Wall Street reform is all about - looking out for working families and making sure that everyone is playing by the same rules.  Unfortunately, that hasn't been enough to stop Republicans in Congress from fighting these reforms.  Backed by an army of financial industry lobbyists, they've been waging an all-out battle to delay, defund and dismantle these new rules.  I refuse to let that happen.  I believe that the free market is one of the greatest forces for progress in human history, and that the true engine of job creation in this country is the private sector, not the government.  But I also believe that the free market has never been about taking whatever you want, however you can get it.  Alongside our innovative spirit, America only prospers when we meet certain obligations to one another, and when we all play by the same set of rules. We've come too far - and sacrificed too much - to go back to an era of top-down, on-your-own economics.  And as long as I'm President, we're going to keep moving this country forward so that everyone - whether you start a business or punch a clock - can have confidence that if you work hard, you can get ahead.  Thanks and have a great weekend.
.   I toured New Jersey on Wednesday with Governor Christie, and witnessed some of the terrible devastation firsthand.  It's heartbreaking.  Families have lost loved ones.  Entire communities have been wiped away.  Even some of the first responders who repeatedly put themselves in harm's way to bravely save the lives of others have suffered losses of their own. Today, I ask everyone to keep them in your prayers.  And as President, I promise them this: your country will be there for you for as long as it takes to recover and rebuild. Throughout the week, I've been in constant contact with governors and mayors in the affected areas, who are doing an excellent job in extraordinarily difficult circumstances.  And we owe the first responders and National Guardsmen who have been working around the clock our deepest gratitude. Our number one concern has been making sure that affected states and communities have everything they need to respond to and recover from this storm.  From the earliest hours, I ordered that resources be made available to states in the path of the storm as soon as they needed them.  And I instructed my team not to let red tape and bureaucracy get in the way of solving problems - especially when it came to making sure local utilities could restore power as quickly as possible.  Before the storm hit, FEMA pre-staged emergency response teams from North Carolina to Maine, and deployed resources like food, water, and generators up and down the coast.  As the storm passed, thousands of FEMA personnel were on the ground responding to those in need.  And by midweek, the Department of Defense was ready to fly in cargo planes that could be loaded with trucks and equipment to help local power companies get up and running faster. But recovery will be a long, hard road for many communities.  There's a lot of work ahead. If you've been directly impacted by this storm and need temporary assistance getting back on your feet, you can call 1-800-621-FEMA, or apply at DisasterAssistance.gov.  If you know folks who are still without power, please spread the word and let them know.  And if you don't live in an affected area and want to help, supporting the Red Cross is the best and fastest way.  This week, we have been humbled by nature's destructive power.  But we've been inspired as well.  For when the storm was darkest, the heroism of our fellow citizens shone brightest.  The nurses and doctors at NYU Medical Center who evacuated fragile newborns, carrying some down several flights of stairs.  The firefighters in Queens who battled an inferno from flooded streets, and rescued people from an apartment building by boat.  The Coast Guard crews from North Carolina who saved a sinking ship in stormy seas - and their rescue swimmer who, when he reached those in need, said, "I'm Dan, and I hear you guys need a ride."  That's who we are.  We're Americans.  When times are tough, we're tougher.  We put others first.  We go that extra mile.  We open our hearts and our homes to one another, as one American family.  We recover, we rebuild, we come back stronger - and together we will do that once more.  Thanks, God bless you, and God bless America.
.  Over the last few weeks, there's been a lot of talk about deadlines we're facing on jobs and taxes and investments.  But with so much noise and so many opinions flying around, it can be easy to lose sight of what this debate is really about.  It's not about which political party comes out on top, or who wins or loses in Washington.  It's about making smart decisions that will have a real impact on your lives and the lives of Americans all across the country.  Right now, middle-class tax cuts are set to expire at the end of the year.  Time is running out.  And there are two things that can happen. First, if Congress does nothing, every family in America will see their income taxes automatically go up on January 1st.  A typical middle-class family of four would get a $2,200 tax hike.  That would be bad for families, it would be bad for businesses, and it would drag down our entire economy. Now, Congress can avoid all this by passing a law that prevents a tax hike on the first $250,000 of everybody's income.  That means 98 percent of Americans and 97 percent of small businesses wouldn't see their income taxes go up by a single dime.  Even the wealthiest Americans would get a tax cut on the first $250,000 of their income.  And families everywhere would enjoy some peace of mind.  The Senate has already done their part.  Now we're just waiting for Republicans in the House to do the same thing.  But so far, they've put forward an unbalanced plan that actually lowers rates for the wealthiest Americans.  If we want to protect the middle class, then the math just doesn't work. We can and should do more than just extend middle class tax cuts.  I stand ready to work with Republicans on a plan that spurs economic growth, creates jobs and reduces our deficit - a plan that gives both sides some of what they want.  I'm willing to find ways to bring down the cost of health care without hurting seniors and other Americans who depend on it.  And I'm willing to make more entitlement spending cuts on top of the $1 trillion dollars in cuts I signed into law last year.  But if we're serious about reducing our deficit while still investing in things like education and research that are important to growing our economy - and if we're serious about protecting middle-class families - then we're also going to have to ask the wealthiest Americans to pay higher tax rates.  That's one principle I won't compromise on After all, this was a central question in the election.  A clear majority of Americans - Democrats, Republicans and Independents - agreed with a balanced approach that asks something from everyone, but a little more from those who can most afford it.  It's the only way to put our economy on a sustainable path without asking even more from the middle class.  And it's the only kind of plan I'm willing to sign. Everyone agrees we need to bring down our deficit and strengthen our economy for the long-term.  The question is whether we can do it in a responsible way that allows us to keep investing in the things that have always made America strong.  I'm convinced we can.  And if both sides are willing to compromise, I believe we can give businesses and families a sense of security going into the New Year. Thanks, and have a great weekend.
:   Hi everybody.  This weekend, as you gather with family and friends, Michelle and I want to wish you a Merry Christmas and a Happy Holidays.  THE FIRST LADY:    We both love this time of year.  And there's nothing quite like celebrating the holidays at the White House.  It's an incredible experience and one that we try to share with as many folks as possible.  This month, more than 90,000 people have come through the White House to see the holiday decorations.  And our theme for this year's holiday season was "Joy to All" - a reminder to appreciate the many joys of the holidays: the joy of giving...the joy of service...and, of course, the joy of homecomings.   THE PRESIDENT :   That's right.  This weekend, parents are picking up their kids from college - and making room for all that laundry they bring with them.  Children are counting down the hours until the grandparents arrive.  And uncles, aunts and cousins are all making their way to join the family and share in the holiday spirit.   THE FIRST LADY:    That's what makes this season so special - getting to spend time with the people we love most. THE PRESIDENT :   And this year, that's especially true for some of our military families.  You see, the war in Iraq is over.  The transition in Afghanistan is underway.  After a decade of war, our heroes are coming home.  And all across America, military families are reuniting.    So this week let's give thanks for our veterans and their families.  And let's say a prayer for all our troops - especially those in Afghanistan - who are spending this holiday overseas, risking their lives to defend the freedoms we hold dear. THE FIRST LADY:    And remember, when our men and women in uniform answer the call to serve, their families serve right along with them.  Across this country, military spouses have been raising their families all alone during those long deployments.  And let's not forget about our military kids, moving from base to base - and school to school - every few years, and stepping up to help out at home when mom or dad is away.  Our military families sacrifice so much on our behalf, and Barack and I believe that we should serve them as well as they serve this country.  That's why Dr. Jill Biden and I started Joining Forces - an effort to rally all Americans to honor and support our veterans and military families.  Just go to joiningforces.gov to find out how you can show your gratitude for their service.  THE PRESIDENT :   Because that's what this season is all about.  For my family and millions of Americans, it's a time to celebrate the birth of Christ. To reflect on His life and learn from His example.  Every year, we commit to love one another.  To give of ourselves.  To be our brother's keeper.  To be our sister's keeper.  But those ideas are not just part of our faith.  They're part of all faiths.  And they unite us as Americans.  THE FIRST LADY:    In this country, we take care of each other.  And in this season of giving, it's inspiring to see so many people all across America taking the time to help those most in need.  THE PRESIDENT :   That's part of what makes us such a compassionate nation.  And this year, I know many of you are extending that kindness to the families who are still picking up the pieces from Hurricane Sandy and your prayers to the people of Newtown, Connecticut. THE FIRST LADY:    So thank you for all that you've done this year on behalf of your fellow Americans.  THE PRESIDENT :  And on behalf of my favorite Americans - Michelle, Malia, Sasha and Bo - Merry Christmas, everybody.  THE FIRST LADY:    Happy holidays.
've been clawing our way back from the worst economic crisis of our lifetimes.  And we know it will take longer than any of us would like to fully recover all the jobs and savings that have been lost.  But there are things we can do - right now - to help put people back to work and make life a little easier for middle-class families.  For months, I've been pushing Congress to help us along by passing common-sense policies that would make a difference.  Democrats and Republicans have already done some important work together - like passing a tax cut that's allowing working Americans to keep more of their paycheck every week.   But Congress has refused to act on most of the other ideas in my jobs plan that economists say could put a million more Americans back to work. There's no excuse for inaction.  Right now, we are seven days away from thousands of American workers having to walk off the job because Congress hasn't passed a transportation bill.  We are eight days away from nearly seven and a half million students seeing their loan rates double because Congress hasn't acted to stop it.   This makes no sense.  We know that one of the most important things we can do for our economy is to make sure that all Americans get the best education possible.  Right now, the unemployment rate for Americans with a college degree or more is about half the national average.  Their incomes are twice as high as those who don't have a high school diploma.  So, if we know that a higher education is the clearest path to the middle class, why would we make it harder to achieve?  So much of America needs to be repaired right now.  Bridges are deteriorating after years of neglect. Highways are choked with congestion. Transportation delays cost Americans and businesses billions of dollars every year. And there are hundreds of thousands of construction workers who have never been more eager to get back on the job.  So why would we let our transportation funding run out?  This is a time when we should be doing everything in our power - Democrats and Republicans - to keep this recovery moving forward.  My Administration is doing its part.  On Friday, Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood announced $500 million in competitive grants for states and communities that will create construction jobs on projects like road repair and port renovation.  And that's an important step, but we can't do it all on our own.   The Senate did their part.  They passed a bipartisan transportation bill back in March.  It had the support of 52 Democrats and 22 Republicans.  Now, it's up to the House to follow suit; to put aside partisan posturing, end the gridlock, and do what's right for the American people.  It's not lost on any of us that this is an election year.  But we've got responsibilities that are bigger than an election.  We answer to the American people, and they are demanding action.  Let's make it easier for students to stay in college.  Let's keep construction workers rebuilding our roads and bridges.  And let's tell Congress to do their job.   Tell them it's time to take steps that we know will create jobs now and help sustain our economy for years to come.
.  And one of the things I told them was how proud I was that they were making that investment in themselves - because in today's economy, the best predictor of success is a good education.  That's not just true for our individual success; it's also true for America's success.  New jobs and new businesses will take root wherever they can find the most highly-educated, highly-skilled workers.  And I want those workers to be American workers.  I want those good-paying, middle-class jobs to take root right here. So it should concern everyone that right now - all across America - tens of thousands of teachers are getting laid off.  In Pennsylvania alone, there are 9,000 fewer educators in our schools today than just a year ago.  In Ohio, the number is close to 7,000.  And nationwide, over the past three years, school districts have lost over 250,000 educators.  Think about what that means for our country.  When there are fewer teachers in our schools, class sizes start climbing up.  Our students start falling behind.  And our economy takes a hit. The point is: teachers matter.  One study found that a good teacher can increase the lifetime income of a classroom by over $250,000.  A great teacher can change the course of a child's life.  So the last thing our country needs is to have fewer teachers in our schools.     Now, I know states are still going through some tough times.  I realize that every Governor is dealing with limited resources and many face stark choices when it comes to their budgets.  But that doesn't mean we should just stand by and do nothing.  When states struggle, it's up to Congress to step in and help out.  In 2009 and in 2010, we provided aid to states to help keep hundreds of thousands of teachers in the classroom.  But we need to do more.  That's why a critical part of the jobs bill that I sent to Congress back in September was to help states prevent even more layoffs and rehire even more teachers who had lost their jobs.  But months later, we're still waiting on Congress to act. When it comes to this recovery, we can't fully control everything that happens in other parts of the world.  But there are plenty of things we can control.  There are plenty of steps we can take, right now, to strengthen our economy.  Putting teachers back in our kids' classrooms is one of those steps.  And there's no excuse for inaction.  You work hard.  Your leaders should, too.  Especially at this make-or-break moment for the middle class.  I know this is an election year.  But some things are bigger than an election.  Some things are bigger than politics.  So I hope you'll join me in telling Congress to do the right thing; to get to work and to help get our teachers back in the classroom.  We can't afford to wait any longer.  Thanks and have a great weekend.
've been talking a lot about America's economic future.  I've told you how I believe we should go about creating strong, sustained growth; how we should pay down our long-term debt in a balanced way; and most of all, what we should do right now to create good, middle-class jobs, so people who work hard can get ahead.  This isn't some abstract debate or trivial argument.  I've said that this is the defining issue of our time, and I mean it.  I've said that this is a make-or-break moment for the middle class, and I believe it.  The decisions we make over the next few years will have an enormous impact on the country we live in, and the one we pass on to our children. Right now, we're still fighting our way back from the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression.  The economy is growing again, but it's not growing fast enough.  Our businesses have created 4.3 million new jobs over the last 27 months, but we're not creating them fast enough.  And we're facing some pretty serious headwinds - from the effects of the recent spike in gas prices, to the financial crisis in Europe. But here's the thing.  We have the answers to these problems.  We have plenty of big ideas and technical solutions from both sides of the aisle.  That's not what's holding us back.  What's holding us back is a stalemate in Washington. Last September, I sent Congress a jobs bill full of the kinds of bipartisan ideas that could have put over a million Americans back to work and helped bolster our economy against outside shocks.  I sent them a plan that would have reduced our deficit by $4 trillion in a balanced way that pays for the investments we need by cutting unnecessary spending and asking the wealthiest Americans to pay a little bit more in taxes.  Since then, Congress has passed a few parts of that jobs bill, like a tax cut that's allowing working Americans to keep more of your paycheck every week.  But on most of the ideas that would create jobs and grow our economy, Republicans in Congress haven't lifted a finger.  They'd rather wait until after the election in November.  Just this past week, one of them said, "Why not wait for the reinforcements?"  That's a quote.  And you can bet plenty of his colleagues are thinking the same thing. I think that's wrong.  This isn't about who wins or loses in Washington.  This is about your jobs, your paychecks, your children's future.  There's no excuse for Congress to stand by and do nothing while so many families are struggling.  None. Right now, Congress should pass a bill to help states put thousands of teachers, firefighters and police officers back on the job.  They should have passed a bill a long time ago to put thousands of construction workers back to work rebuilding our roads and bridges and runways.  And instead of just talking about job creators, they should give small-business owners a tax break for hiring more workers and paying them higher wages.  Right now, Congress should give every responsible homeowner the opportunity to save an average of $3,000 a year by refinancing their mortgage.  They should extend tax credits for clean energy manufacturers so we don't walk away from 40,000 good jobs.  And instead of giving tax breaks to companies who ship jobs overseas, Congress should take that money and use it to cover moving expenses for companies that are bringing jobs back to America.  There's no reason to wait. Every problem we face is within our power to solve.  What's lacking is our politics.  Remind your Members of Congress why you sent them to Washington in the first place.  Tell them to stop worrying about the next election and start worrying about the next generation.  I'm ready to work with anyone - Republican, Democrat, or Independent - who is serious about moving this country forward.  And I hope Members of Congress will join me. Thanks, and have a great weekend.
.  I'm here in Colorado Springs, visiting some of the devastating fires that have been taking place over the last several days.  As many of you have been watching on television, entire communities are under threat. And we had a chance to tour some of the devastation that has been taking place in some of the subdivisions here. Firefighters are working 18 hours a day, around the clock, trying to make sure that they get this blaze under control.  We've got volunteers who are out here who are making sure that these firefighters have the food and the water and all the resources that they need.  And we've been engaging in some unprecedented coordination between federal, state, and local communities to try to bring this fire under control. And one of the things I've done here, in addition to saying thank you to these firefighters, is to let them know that all of America has their back.  One of the things that happens, whether it's a fire here in Colorado, or a tornado in Alabama or Missouri, or a flood or a hurricane in Florida, one of the things that happens here in America is when we see our fellow citizens in trouble and having difficulty, we come together as one American family, as one community.  And you see that spirit and you see that strength here in Colorado Springs, where people are working together, promising each other to rebuild.  We've got to make sure that we are there with them every step of the way, even after this fire is put out.  So for those of you who can provide some help, you should get on the online site of the American Red Cross.  They're very active in this community and you can make your contributions there.  We're going to continue to make sure that the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the Forest Service, our military and National Guard and all the resources that we have available at the federal level are brought to bear in fighting this fire. But this is a good reminder of what makes us Americans.  We don't just look out for ourselves; we look out for each other.  And one of the things that I told these firefighters is that we can provide them all the resources they need, but only they provide the courage and the discipline to be able to actually fight these fires. And it's important that we appreciate what they do not just when our own communities are struck by disaster.  It's important that we remember what they do each and every single day, and that we continue to provide support to our first responders, our emergency management folks, our firefighters, our military -- everybody who helps secure our liberty and our security each and every day. So, America, I hope you guys remember the folks during these times of need.  I know this is a little bit unusual -- we don't usually do weekly addresses like this, but I thought it was a good opportunity for us to actually focus attention on a problem that's going on here in Colorado Springs.  We never know when it might be our community that's threatened, and it's important that we're there for them. Thank you very much.
've spent some time lately traveling the country and talking with folks outside of Washington.  And the number one issue for the people I meet is how we can get back to a place where we're creating good, middle-class jobs that pay well and offer some security. That's the idea behind the American Jobs Act.  It's a jobs bill that does two simple things: put more people back to work, and more money back in the pockets of people who are working. This jobs bill puts construction workers back to work rebuilding our roads and bridges and modernizing our schools. This jobs bill puts teachers back in the classroom, and keeps cops and firefighters on our streets. This jobs bill gives tax credits to companies that hire our veterans, because if you sign up to fight for our country, the last thing you should have to do is fight for a job when you come home.  This jobs bill connects the long-term unemployed to temporary work to keep their skills sharp while they look for a job, and it gives hundreds of thousands of young people the hope of a job next summer. This jobs bill cuts taxes for every small business owner in America.  It cuts them even more for small business owners that hire new workers and raise workers' salaries.  And it cuts taxes for every working family in America so that you'll have more money in your pockets, and businesses know they'll have customers to buy what they sell. That's the American Jobs Act, and you can check it out for yourself on WhiteHouse.gov.  It will create new jobs.  It will cut taxes for every worker and small business in the country.  And it will not add to the deficit.  It will be paid for. On Monday, I'll lay out my plan for how we'll do that - how we'll pay for this plan and pay down our debt by following some basic principles: making sure we live within our means and asking everyone to pay their fair share. But right now, we've got to get Congress to pass this jobs bill.  Everything in the American Jobs Act is the kind of idea that's been supported by Democrats and Republicans before.  And if they're ideas you agree with, too, every one of you can help make it happen by telling your congressperson to pass this jobs bill right away. I know some of them would rather wait another year to wage another election than work together right now.  But most Americans don't have the luxury of waiting.  It was three years ago this week that a financial crisis on Wall Street made things much more difficult for working folks on Main Street.  And too many are still hurting as a result. So the time for action is now.  No more games or gridlock.  No more division or delay.  It's time for the people you sent to Washington to put country before party - to stop worrying so much about their jobs and start worrying more about yours. It's time to get to work and show the world once again why the United States of America remains the greatest nation on Earth. Thank you.
: Hi everyone. As you gather with family and friends this weekend, Michelle, Malia, Sasha and I - and of course Bo - want to wish you all Merry Christmas and Happy Holidays.   THE FIRST LADY:  This is such a wonderful time of year.    It's a time to honor the story of love and redemption that began 2,000 years ago ... a time to see the world through a child's eyes and rediscover the magic all around us ... and a time to give thanks for the gifts that bless us every single day.                                                                                                                This holiday season at the White House, we wanted to show our thanks with a special holiday tribute to some of the strongest, bravest, and most resilient members of our American family - the men and women who wear our country's uniform and the families who support them.    THE PRESIDENT: For many military families, the best gift this year is a simple one - welcoming a loved one back for the holidays. You see, after nearly nine years, our war in Iraq is over.  Our troops are coming home.  And across America, military families are being reunited.   So let's take a moment to give thanks for their service; for their families' service; for our veterans' service.  And let's say a prayer for all our troops standing post all over the world, especially our brave men and women in Afghanistan who are serving, even as we speak, in harm's way to protect the freedoms and security we hold dear.   THE FIRST LADY: Our veterans, troops, and military families sacrifice so much for us.   So this holiday season, let's make sure that all of them know just how much we appreciate everything they do.    Let's ask ourselves, "How can I give back? How can my family serve them as well as they've served us"    One way you can get started is to visit JoiningForces.gov to find out how you can get involved in your community.   THE PRESIDENT: Giving of ourselves; service to others - that's what this season is all about. For my family and millions of Americans, that's what Christmas is all about. It reminds us that part of what it means to love God is to love one another, to be our brother's keeper and our sister's keeper. But that belief is not just at the center of our Christian faith, it's shared by Americans of all faiths and backgrounds. It's why so many of us, every year, volunteer our time to help those most in need; especially our hungry and our homeless.   So whatever you believe, wherever you're from, let's remember the spirit of service that connects us all this season - as Americans.  Each of us can do our part to serve our communities and our country, not just today, but every day.   THE FIRST LADY: So from our family to yours, Merry Christmas.   THE PRESIDENT:  Merry Christmas and Happy Holidays, everybody.
.  As 2011 comes to an end and we look ahead to 2012, I want to wish everyone a happy and healthy New Year. The last year has been a time of great challenge and great progress for our country.  We ended one war and began to wind down another.  We dealt a crippling blow to al-Qaeda and made America more secure.  We stood by our friends and allies around the world through natural disasters and revolutions.  And we began to see signs of economic recovery here at home, even as too many Americans are still struggling to get ahead. There's no doubt that 2012 will bring even more change.  And as we head into the New Year, I'm hopeful that we have what it takes to face that change and come out even stronger - to grow our economy, create more jobs, and strengthen the middle class. I'm hopeful because of what we saw right before Christmas, when Members of Congress came together to prevent a tax hike for 160 million Americans - saving a typical family about $40 in every paycheck.  They also made sure Americans looking for work won't see their unemployment insurance cut off.  And I expect Congress to finish the job by extending these provisions through the end of 2012. It was good to see Members of Congress do the right thing for millions of working Americans.  But it was only possible because you added your voices to the debate.  Through email and Twitter and over the phone, you let your representatives know what was at stake.  Your lives.  Your families.  Your well-being.  You had the courage to believe that your voices could make a difference.  And at the end of the day, they made all the difference. More than anything else, you are the ones who make me hopeful about 2012.  Because we've got some difficult debates and some tough fights to come.  As I've said before, we are at a make-or-break moment for the middle class.  And in many ways, the actions we take in the months ahead will help determine what kind of country we want to be, and what kind of world we want our children and grandchildren to grow up in.  As President, I promise to do everything I can to make America a place where hard work and responsibility are rewarded - one where everyone has a fair shot and everyone does their fair share.  That's the America I believe in.  That's the America we've always known.  And I'm confident that if we work together, and if you keep reminding folks in Washington what's at stake, then we will move this country forward and guarantee every American the opportunities they deserve. Thanks for watching, and from Michelle, Malia, Sasha, Bo and myself, Happy New Year.
. In recent weeks, we've seen signs that our economy is growing stronger and creating jobs at a faster clip.  While numbers and figures will go up and down in the coming months, what cannot waver is our resolve to do everything in our power to keep stoking the fires of the recovery. And the last thing we should do is let Washington stand in the way. You see, at the end of the month, taxes are set to go up on 160 million working Americans. If you're one of them, then you know better than anyone that the last thing you need right now is a tax hike.  But if Congress refuses to act, middle class taxes will go up.  It's that simple. Now, if this sounds familiar, it's because we've been here before.  Back in December, Congress faced this exact same predicament.  Ultimately, thanks to your voices, they did the right thing - but only after a great deal of bickering and political posturing that put the strength of our economy and the security of middle class families at risk.  We can't go through that again. Congress needs to stop this middle class tax hike from happening.  Period.  No drama.  No delay.  And no ideological side issues that have nothing to do with this tax cut.  Now is not the time for self-inflicted wounds to our recovery.  Now is the time for common-sense action.  And this tax cut is common-sense.  If you're a family making about $50,000 a year, this tax cut amounts to about $1,000 a year.  That's about $40 in every paycheck.  I know there are some folks in this town who think $40 isn't a lot of money.  But to a student or a senior who's trying to stretch the budget a little bit further?  To a parent who's filling up the tank and looking at rising gas prices?  To them, $40 can make all the difference in the world. And so can your voice.  I hope you'll pick up the phone, send a tweet, write an email, and tell your representative that they should get this done before it gets too late.  Tell them not to play politics again by linking this debate to unrelated issues. Tell them not to manufacture another needless standoff or crisis.  Tell them not to stand in the way of the recovery.  Tell them to just do their job.  That's what our middle class needs.  That's what our country needs. In the wake of the worst economic crisis of our lifetimes, we're getting things going again.  And we're going to keep at it until everyone shares in America's comeback. Thanks, and have a great weekend.
's video.  A padlock.  A pair of boots.  A candle.  And a pair of socks.   No, we're not having a yard sale.  And these products may not appear to have much in common.  But they're united by three proud words: "Made in America."  They're manufactured by American workers, in American factories, and shipped to customers here and around the world.   The companies that make these products are part of a hopeful trend: they're bringing jobs back from overseas.  You've heard of outsourcing - well, this is insourcing.  And in this make or break moment for the middle class and those working to get into the middle class, that's exactly the kind of commitment to country that we need.   This week, I invited executives from businesses that are insourcing jobs to a forum at the White House.  These are CEOs who take pride in hiring people here in America, not just because it's increasingly the right thing to do for their bottom line, but also because it's the right thing to do for their workers and for our communities and our country.   I told those CEOs what I'll tell any business leader: ask yourself what you can do to bring more jobs back to the country that made your success possible.  And I'll make sure you've got a government that does everything in its power to help you succeed.   That's why, in the next few weeks, I will put forward new tax proposals that reward companies that choose to do the right thing by bringing jobs home and investing in America - and eliminate tax breaks for companies that move jobs overseas.   It's also why on Friday, I called on Congress to help me make government work better for you.  Right now, we have a 21st century economy, but we've still got a government organized for the 20th century.  Over the years, the needs of Americans have changed, but our government has not.  In fact, it's gotten even more complex.  And that has to change.   That's why I asked Congress to reinstate the authority that past presidents have had to streamline and reform the Executive Branch.  This is the same sort of authority that every business owner has to make sure that his or her company keeps pace with the times.  It's the same authority that presidents had for over 50 years - up until Ronald Reagan.  And let me be clear: I will only use this authority for reforms that result in more efficiency, better service, and a leaner government.   These changes will make it easier for small business owners to get the loans and support they need to sell their products around the world.  For example, instead of forcing small business owners to navigate the six departments and agencies in the federal government that focus on business and trade, we'll have one department.  One place where entrepreneurs can go from the day they come up with an idea and need a patent, to the day they start building a warehouse, to the day they're ready to ship their products overseas.   And in the meantime, we're creating a new website - BusinessUSA - that will serve as a one-stop shop with information for businesses small and large that want to start selling their stuff around the world.   This means that more small business owners will see their hard work pay off.  More companies will be able to hire new workers.  And we'll be able to rebuild an economy that's not known for paper profits or financial speculation, but for making and selling products like these. Products "Made in America."   Thank you, and have a great weekend.
. This week, I traveled to Cleveland, Ohio, to talk with folks about the biggest challenge we face as a country - rebuilding our economy so that, once again, hard work pays off, responsibility is rewarded, and anyone, regardless of who they are or where they come from, can make it if they try.  That's the economy America deserves.  That's the economy I'm fighting every day to build. Now, to get there, the most important thing we need to do is get more Americans back to work.  And over the past three years, we've made steady progress.  We just learned that our economy added 212,000 private sector jobs in December.  After losing more than 8 million jobs in the recession, we've added more than 3 million private sector jobs over the past 22 months.  And we're starting 2012 with manufacturing on the rise and the American auto industry on the mend. We're heading in the rightdirection.  And we're not going to let up.  On Wednesday the White House will host a forum called "Insourcing American Jobs."  We'll hear from business leaders who are bringing jobs back home and see how we can help other businesses follow their lead. Because this is a make or break moment for the middle class and all those working to get there.  We've got to keep at it. We've got to keep creating jobs.  And we've got to keep rebuilding our economy so that everyone gets a fair shot, everyone does their fair share - and everyone plays by the same rules.  We can't go back to the days when the financial system was stacking the deck against ordinary Americans.  To me, that's not an option. Not after all we've been through. That's why I appointed Richard Cordray as our nation's new consumer watchdog this week.  Richard's job is simple: to look out for you.  Every day, his sole mission is to protect consumers from potential abuses by the financial industry and to make sure that you've got all the transparent information you need to make the important financial decisions in your lives. I nominated Richard for this job last summer.  And yet, Republicans in the Senate kept blocking his confirmation - not because they objected to him, but because they wanted to weaken his agency.  That made no sense. Every day we waited was a day you and consumers all across the country were at greater financial risk. So this year, I'm going to keep doing whatever it takes to move this economy forward and to make sure that middle class families regain the security they've lost over the past decade.  That's my New Year's resolution to all of you.  Thank you, and have a great weekend.
've been traveling around the country and talking with folks about my blueprint for an economy built to last.  It's a blueprint that focuses on restoring the things we've always done best.  Our strengths.  American manufacturing.  American energy.  The skills and education of American workers.  And most importantly, American values like fairness and responsibility.  We know what happened when we strayed from those values over the past decade - especially when it comes to our housing market. Lenders sold loans to families who couldn't afford them.  Banks packaged those mortgages up and traded them for phony profits.  It drove up prices and created an unsustainable bubble that burst - and left millions of families who did everything right in a world of hurt. It was wrong.  The housing crisis has been the single biggest drag on our recovery from the recession.  It has kept millions of families in debt and unable to spend, and it has left hundreds of thousands of construction workers out of a job. But there's something even more important at stake.  I've been saying this is a make-or-break moment for the middle class.  And the housing crisis struck right at the heart of what it means to be middle-class in this country: owning a home.  Raising our kids.  Building our dreams. Right now, there are more than 10 million homeowners in this country who, because of a decline in home prices that is no fault of their own, owe more on their mortgages than their homes are worth.  Now, it is wrong for anyone to suggest that the only option for struggling, responsible homeowners is to sit and wait for the housing market to hit bottom.  I don't accept that.  None of us should. That's why we launched a plan a couple years ago that's helped nearly one million responsible homeowners refinance their mortgages and save an average of $300 on their payments each month.  Now, I'll be the first to admit it didn't help as many folks as we'd hoped.  But that doesn't mean we shouldn't keep trying. That's why I'm sending Congress a plan that will give every responsible homeowner the chance to save about $3,000 a year on their mortgages by refinancing at historically low rates.  No more red tape.  No more endless forms.  And a small fee on the largest financial institutions will make sure it doesn't add a dime to the deficit. I want to be clear: this plan will not help folks who bought a house they couldn't afford and then walked away from it.  It won't help folks who bought multiple houses just to turn around and sell them.  What this plan will do is help millions of responsible homeowners who make their payments every month, but who, until now, couldn't refinance because their home values kept dropping or they got wrapped up in too much red tape. But here's the catch.  In order to lower mortgage payments for millions of Americans, we need Congress to act.  They're the ones who have to pass this plan.  And as anyone who has followed the news in the last six months can tell you, getting Congress to do anything these days is not an easy job. That's why I'm going to keep up the pressure on Congress to do the right thing.  But I also need your help.  I need your voice.  I need everyone who agrees with this plan to get on the phone, send an email, tweet, pay a visit, and remind your representatives in Washington who they work for.  Tell them to pass this plan.  Tell them to help more families keep their homes, and more neighborhoods stay vibrant and whole.  The truth is, it will take time for our housing market to recover.  It will take time for our economy to fully bounce back.  But there are steps we can take, right now, to move this country forward.  That's what I promise to do as your President, and I hope Members of Congress will join me. Thank you, and have a great weekend.
.  I'm speaking to you this week from the Boeing Plant in Everett, Washington. Boeing has been in this community for half a century.  But it's what they're doing here today that has folks really excited; because at this plant they're building the plane of the future - the Dreamliner.  It's an impressive sight.  And, to be honest, part of why I came was to see it up close.  But I also came because this is a great example of how we can bring jobs and manufacturing back to America.  You see, the last few decades haven't been easy for manufacturing in this country.  New technology has made businesses more efficient and productive - and that's good - but it's also made a lot of jobs obsolete.  The result has been painful for a lot of families and communities.  Factories where people thought they'd retire have left town.  Jobs that provided a decent living have been shipped overseas.  And the hard truth is that a lot of those jobs aren't coming back. But that doesn't mean we have to settle for a lesser future.  I don't accept that idea.  In America, there's always something we can do to create new jobs and new manufacturing and new security for the middle-class.  In America, we don't give up, we get up. Right now, that's exactly what we're doing.  Over the past 23 months, businesses have created 3.7 million new jobs.  And manufacturers are hiring for the first time since the 1990s.  It's now getting more expensive to do business in places like China.  Meanwhile, America is more productive than ever.  And companies like Boeing are realizing that even when we can't make things cheaper than China, we can make things better.  That's how we're going to compete globally. For Boeing, business right now is booming.  Last year, orders for commercial aircraft rose by more than 50 percent.  To meet that rising demand, they've put thousands of folks to work all over the country.  We want to see more of this.  We need to make it as easy as we can for our companies to create more jobs in America, not overseas.  And that starts with our tax code.  No company should get a tax break for outsourcing jobs.  Instead, tax breaks should go to manufacturers who set up shop here at home.  Bigger tax breaks should go to high-tech manufacturers who create the jobs of the future.  And if you relocate your company to a struggling community, you should get help financing that new plant, that new equipment, or training for new workers.  It's time to stop rewarding businesses that ship jobs overseas, and start rewarding businesses that create jobs here in America.  And Congress should send me that kind of tax reform right away. Another thing we're doing is to make it easier for companies like Boeing to sell their products all over the world, because more exports mean more jobs. Two years ago, I set a goal of doubling U.S. exports over five years.  And we're on track to meet that goal - ahead of schedule. We have a big opportunity right now to build not only an economy that will help us succeed today, but an economy that will help our kids and their kids succeed tomorrow. We know what we need to do.  We need to strengthen American manufacturing. We need to invest in American-made energy and new skills for American workers.  And above all, we need to renew the values that have always made this country great:  Hard work.  Fair play.  Shared responsibility. We can do this.  Ask the folks in Everett.  Right here, a few years ago, the first Dreamliner took off on its maiden trip. Thousands of employees came to watch.  One was an executive office administrator named Sharon O'Hara.  As Sharon saw that first plane take flight - a result of so much hard work - she got goose bumps.  In her words, she said, "We said we would do it and we did."  That's the story of America.  We said we would do it, and we did.  That's the can-do spirit that makes us who we are.  We've seen challenging times before.  But we always emerge from them stronger.  And that's what we're going to do again today.  Thanks, and have a great weekend.
.  Earlier this week, I spent some time with the hardworking men and women of the American auto industry, who are busy writing a new chapter in America's story. Just a few years ago, their industry was shedding hundreds of thousands of jobs.  Two of the Big Three - GM and Chrysler - were on the brink of failure.  If we had let this great American industry collapse - if we had let Detroit go bankrupt - more than one million Americans would have lost their jobs in the middle of the worst recession since the Great Depression. I refused to let that happen.  These jobs are worth more than just a paycheck - they're a source of pride and a ticket to the middle class.  These companies are worth more than just the cars they build - they're a symbol of American innovation and a source of our manufacturing might. So in exchange for help, we demanded responsibility.  We got the companies to retool and restructure.  Everyone sacrificed.  And three years later, the American auto industry is back. Today, GM is the number one automaker in the world.  Chrysler is growing faster in America than any other car company.  Ford is investing billions in American plants and factories, and plans to bring thousands of jobs back home.  All told, the entire industry has added more than 200,000 new jobs over the past two and a half years. And they're not just building cars again - they're building better cars.  Thanks to new fuel efficiency standards we put in place, they're building cars that will average nearly 55 miles per gallon by the middle of the next decade.  That's almost double what they get today.  That means folks will be able to fill up every two weeks instead of every week, saving the typical family more than $8,000 at the pump over time.  That's a big deal, especially as families are yet again feeling the pinch from rising gas prices. So what's happening in Detroit will make a difference.  But it won't solve everything.  There's no silver bullet for avoiding spikes in gas prices every year.  There's no shortcut to taking control of our energy future.  We have to pursue an all-of-the-above strategy that helps develop every source of American energy.  And we have to do it now. The good news is, we've been making progress.  Take a look at this chart.  Six years ago, 60% of the oil we used was imported.  Since I took office, America's dependence on foreign oil has decreased every single year.  In fact, in 2010, for the first time in thirteen years, less than half the petroleum we consumed was imported.  Part of that is because we're producing more oil here at home than at any time in the last eight years. But we can't just drill our way out of this problem.   While we consume 20 percent of the world's oil, we only have 2 percent of the world's oil reserves.  We've got to develop new technology that will help us use new forms of energy.  That's been a priority of mine as President.  And because of the investments we've made, our use of clean, renewable energy has nearly doubled - and thousands of Americans have jobs because of it. Now we need to keep at it.  And to do that, we need to make the right choices. Here's one we can make right now.  Every year, $4 billion of your tax dollars go to subsidizing the oil industry.  These are the same companies making record profits - tens of billions of dollars a year.  I don't think oil companies need more corporate welfare.  Congress should end this taxpayer giveaway.  If you agree with me, I'm asking you to e-mail, call, or Tweet your representative.  Tell them to stop fighting for oil companies.  Tell them to start fighting for working families.  Tell them to fight for the clean energy future that's within our reach.  Because the sooner we all get started, the sooner we'll get there together.  Thanks and have a great weekend.
. I'm speaking to you this week from a factory in Petersburg, Virginia, where they're bringing on more than 100 new workers to build parts for the next generation of jet engines.                                                                                                                              It's a story that's happening more frequently across the country. Our businesses just added 233,000 jobs last month - for a total of nearly four million new jobs over the last two years. More companies are choosing to bring jobs back and invest in America. Manufacturing is adding jobs for the first time since the 1990s, and we're building more things to sell to the rest of the world stamped with three proud words: Made in America. And it's not just that we're building stuff. We're building better stuff. The engine parts manufactured here in Petersburg will go into next-generation planes that are lighter, faster, and more fuel-efficient. That last part is important. Because whether you're paying for a plane ticket, or filling up your gas tank, technology that helps us get more miles to the gallon is one of the easiest ways to save money and reduce our dependence on foreign oil. The recent spike in gas prices has been another painful reminder of why we have to invest in this technology.   As usual, politicians have been rolling out their three-point plans for two-dollar gas: drill, drill, and drill some more.  Well, my response is, we have been drilling.  Under my Administration, oil production in America is at an eight-year high.  We've quadrupled the number of operating oil rigs, and opened up millions of acres for drilling.    But you and I both know that with only 2% of the world's oil reserves, we can't just drill our way to lower gas prices - not when consume 20 percent of the world's oil. We need an all-of-the-above strategy that relies less on foreign oil and more on American-made energy - solar, wind, natural gas, biofuels, and more.  That's the strategy we're pursuing.  It's why I went to a plant in North Carolina earlier this week, where they're making trucks that run on natural gas, and hybrid trucks that go further on a single tank.  And it's why I've been focused on fuel efficient cars since the day I took office. Over the last few years, the annual number of miles driven by Americans has stayed roughly the same, but the total amount of gas we use has been going down. In other words, we're getting more bang for our buck. If we accelerate that trend, we can help drivers save a significant amount of money. That's why, after 30 years of inaction, we finally put in place new standards that will make sure our cars average nearly 55 miles per gallon by the middle of the next decade - nearly double what they get today. This wasn't easy: we had to bring together auto companies, and unions, and folks who don't ordinarily see eye to eye. But it was worth it. Because these cars aren't some pie in the sky solution that's years away. They're being built right now - by American workers, in factories right here in the U.S.A. Every year, our cars and trucks will be able to go further and use less fuel, and pretty soon, you'll be able to fill up every two weeks instead of every week - something that, over time, will save the typical family more than $8,000 at the pump.  We'll reduce our oil consumption by more than 12 billion barrels. That's a future worth investing in. So we have a choice.  Right now, some folks in Washington would rather spend another $4 billion on subsidies to oil companies each year. Well you know what?  We've been handing out these kinds of taxpayer giveaways for nearly a century.  And outside of Congress, does anyone really think that's still a good idea?  I want this Congress to stop the giveaways to an oil industry that's never been more profitable, and invest in a clean energy industry that's never been more promising.  We should be investing in the technology that's building the cars and trucks and jets that will prevent us from dealing with these high gas prices year after year after year.   Ending this cycle of rising gas prices won't be easy, and it won't happen overnight. But that's why you sent us to Washington - to solve tough problems like this one. So I'm going to keep doing everything I can to help you save money on gas, both right now and in the future. I hope politicians from both sides of the aisle join me. Let's put aside the bumper-sticker slogans, remember why we're here, and get things done for the American people. Thank you, God bless you, and have a great weekend.
.  This week, I traveled across the country to talk about my all-of-the-above energy strategy for America - a strategy where we produce more oil and gas here at home, but also more biofuels and fuel-efficient cars; more solar power and wind power and other sources of clean, renewable energy.  Now, you wouldn't know it by listening to some of the folks running for office today, but producing more oil at home has been, and will continue to be, a key part of my energy strategy.  Under my Administration, we're producing more oil than at any other time in the last eight years.  We've quadrupled the number of operating oil rigs to a record high.  And we've added enough oil and gas pipeline to circle the entire Earth and then some.  Those are the facts.  But as I've been saying all week, even though America uses around 20 percent of the world's oil, we only have around 2 percent of the world's known oil reserves.  So even if we drilled everywhere, we'd still be relying on other countries for oil. That's why we're pursuing an all-of-the-above strategy.  We're producing more biofuels.  More fuel-efficient cars.  More solar power.  More wind power.  This week, I was in Boulder City, Nevada, where they've got the largest solar plant of its kind anywhere in the country.  That's the future.  I was at Ohio State University, where they've developed the fastest electric car in the world.  That's the future.  I don't want to cede these clean energy industries to China or Germany or any other country.  I want to see solar panels and wind turbines and fuel-efficient cars manufactured right here in America, by American workers.  Now, getting these clean energy industries to locate here requires us to maintain a national commitment to new research and development.  But it also requires us to build world-class transportation and communications networks, so that any company can move goods and sell products all around the world as quickly and efficiently as possible.  So much of America needs to be rebuilt right now.  We've got crumbling roads and bridges.  A power grid that wastes too much energy.  An incomplete high-speed broadband network.  And we've got thousands of unemployed construction workers who've been looking for a job ever since the housing market collapsed.  But once again, we're waiting on Congress.  You see, in a matter of days, funding will stop for all sorts of transportation projects.  Construction sites will go idle.  Workers will have to go home.  And our economy will take a hit.  This Congress cannot let that happen.  Not at a time when we should be doing everything in our power - Democrats and Republicans - to keep this recovery moving forward.  The Senate did their part.  They passed a bipartisan transportation bill.  It had the support of 52 Democrats and 22 Republicans.  Now it's up to the House to follow suit; to put aside partisan posturing, end the gridlock, and do what's right for the American people.   This is common sense.  Right now, all across this country, we've got contractors and construction workers who have never been more eager to get back on the job.  A long term transportation bill would put them to work.  And those are good jobs.  We just released a report that shows nearly 90 percent of the construction, manufacturing and trade jobs created through investments in transportation projects are middle class jobs.  Those are exactly the jobs we need right now, and they'll make the economy stronger for everybody.  We've done this before.  During the Great Depression, America built the Hoover Dam and the Golden Gate Bridge.  After World War II, we connected our states with a system of highways.  Democratic and Republican administrations invested in great projects that benefited everybody, from the workers who built them to the businesses that still use them today.  So tell Congress that if we invest in new technology and new energy; in new roads and bridges and construction projects, we can keep growing our economy, put our people back to work, and remind the world why the United States is the greatest nation on Earth. Thanks and have a great weekend.
.  Over the last few months, I've been talking about a choice we face as a country.  We can either settle for an economy where a few people do really well and everyone else struggles to get by, or we can build an economy where hard work pays off again - where everyone gets a fair shot, everyone does their fair share, and everyone plays by the same rules.  That's up to us. Today, I want to talk to you about the idea that everyone in this country should do their fair share. Now, if this were a perfect world, we'd have unlimited resources.  No one would ever have to pay any taxes, and we could spend as much as we wanted.  But we live in the real world.  We don't have unlimited resources.  We have a deficit that needs to be paid down.  And we also have to pay for investments that will help our economy grow and keep our country safe: education, research and technology, a strong military, and retirement programs like Medicare and Social Security.  That means we have to make choices.  When it comes to paying down the deficit and investing in our future, should we ask middle-class Americans to pay even more at a time when their budgets are already stretched to the breaking point?  Or should we ask some of the wealthiest Americans to pay their fair share? That's the choice.  Over the last decade, we've spent hundreds of billions of dollars on what was supposed to be a temporary tax cut for the wealthiest two percent of Americans.  Now we're scheduled to spend almost a trillion more. Today, the wealthiest Americans are paying taxes at one of the lowest rates in 50 years.  Warren Buffett is paying a lower rate than his secretary.  Meanwhile, over the last 30 years, the tax rates for middle class families have barely budged. That's not fair.  It doesn't make any sense.  Do we want to keep giving tax breaks to the wealthiest Americans like me, or Warren Buffett, or Bill Gates - people who don't need them and never asked for them?  Or do we want to keep investing in things that will grow our economy and keep us secure?  Because we can't afford to do both. Now, some people call this class warfare.  But I think asking a billionaire to pay at least the same tax rate as his secretary is just common sense.  We don't envy success in this country.  We aspire to it.  But we also believe that anyone who does well for themselves should do their fair share in return, so that more people have the opportunity to get ahead - not just a few. That's the America I believe in.  And in the next few weeks, Members of Congress will get a chance to show you where they stand.  Congress is going to vote on what's called the Buffett Rule: If you make more than $1 million a year, you should pay at least the same percentage of your income in taxes as middle class families do.  On the other hand, if you make under $250,000 a year - like 98 percent of American families do - your taxes shouldn't go up.  You're the ones struggling with the rising cost of everything from college tuition to groceries.  You're the ones who deserve a break. So every Member of Congress is going to go on record.  And if they vote to keep giving tax breaks to people like me - tax breaks our country can't afford - then they're going to have to explain to you where that money comes from.  Either it's going to add to our deficit, or it's going to come out of your pocket.  Seniors will have to pay more for their Medicare benefits.  Students will see their interest rates go up at a time when they can't afford it.  Families who are scraping by will have to do more because the richest Americans are doing less. That's not right.  That's not who we are.   In America, our story has never been about what we can do by ourselves - it's about what we can do together.  It's about believing in our future and the future of this country.  So tell your Members of Congress to do the right thing.  Call them up, write them a letter, pay them a visit, and tell them to stop giving tax breaks to people who don't need them and start investing in the things that will help our economy grow and put people back to work. That's how we'll make this country a little fairer, a little more just, and a whole lot stronger.  Thank you.
.  As I'm sure you've noticed over the past few weeks, the price at your local pump has been going up and up.  And because it's an election year, so has the temperature of our political rhetoric. What matters most to me right now is the impact that rising prices have on you.  When you've got to spend more on gas, you've got less to spend on everything else.  It makes things harder.  So I wanted to take a minute this weekend to explain what steps my Administration is taking when it comes to energy - most importantly, producing more of it while using less of it. The truth is: the price of gas depends on a lot of factors that are often beyond our control.  Unrest in the Middle East can tighten global oil supply.  Growing nations like China or India adding cars to the road increases demand.  But one thing we should control is fraud and manipulation that can cause prices to spike even further. For years, traders at financial firms were able to game the energy markets, distort the price of oil, and make big profits for themselves at your expense.  And they were able to do all that because of major gaps and loopholes in our regulations.  When I took office, we did something about it.  The Wall Street reforms I signed into law are helping bring energy markets out of the shadows and under real oversight.  They're strengthening our ability to go after fraud and to prevent traders from manipulating the market.  So it's not just wrong, but dangerous that some in Congress want to roll back those protections and return to the days when companies like Enron could avoid regulation and reap enormous profits, no matter who it hurt.  What's more, at a time when big oil companies are making more money than ever before, we're still giving them $4 billion of your tax dollars in subsidies every year.  Your member of Congress should be fighting for you.  Not for big financial firms.  Not for big oil companies.  In the next few weeks, I expect Congress to vote on ending these subsidies.  And when they do, we're going to put every single Member of Congress on record: They can either stand up for oil companies, or they can stand up for the American people.  They can either place their bets on a fossil fuel from the last century, or they can place their bets on America's future.   So make your voice heard.  Send your representative an email.  Give them a call.  Tell them to stand with you. And tell them to be honest with you.  It's easy to promise a quick fix when it comes to gas prices.  There just isn't one.  Anyone who tells you otherwise - any career politician who promises some three-point plan for two-dollar gas - they're not looking for a solution.  They're just looking for your vote.   If we're truly going to make sure we're not at the mercy of spikes in gas prices every year, the answer isn't just to drill more - because we're already drilling more.  Under my Administration, we're producing more oil here at home than at any time in the last eight years, that's a fact. We've quadrupled the number of operating oil rigs to a record high, that's a fact.  And we've opened millions of acres on land and offshore to develop more of our domestic resources.  Those are the facts.  But we can't just rely on drilling.  Not when we use more than 20 percent of the world's oil, but still only have 2 percent of the world's known oil reserves.  If we don't develop other sources of energy, and the technology to use less energy, we'll continue to be dependent on foreign countries for our energy needs.  That's why we're pursuing an all-of-the-above strategy.  As we develop more oil and gas, we're also developing wind and solar power; biofuels, and next-generation vehicles - and thousands of Americans have jobs right now because of it.  We need to keep making those investments - because I don't want to see those jobs go to other countries.  I want to create even more of them right here in America. And after three decades of inaction, we raised fuel economy standards so that by the middle of the next decade, our cars will average nearly 55 miles per gallon.  That's nearly double what they get today.  That means you'll only have to fill up every two weeks instead of every week.  And that will save the typical family more than $8,000 over the life of the car - just by using less gas. Combined, these steps have helped put us on a path to greater energy independence.  Since I took office, America's dependence on foreign oil has gone down every single year.  In 2010, for the first time in 13 years, less than half the oil we used came from foreign countries. We can do even better.  And we will.  But what we can't do is keep being dependent on other countries for our energy needs.  In America we control our own destiny.   So that's the choice we face - the past, or the future.  And America is what it is today because we have always placed our bets on the future.  Thanks, and have a great weekend.
. Stewart in Georgia to meet with soldiers from the Third Infantry Division.  These men and women have fought with bravery and honor in some of the most dangerous places on the planet.  Some of them didn't make it back.  But those who did are now fighting a different kind of battle here at home.  They're looking for new jobs, new opportunities, and new ways to serve. For many, that means going back to school - and America has a long tradition of making sure our veterans and our men and women in uniform can afford to do that.  After World War II, we helped a generation of Americans - including my grandfather - go to school on the GI Bill.  Now, thanks to the 9/11 GI Bill and the Tuition Assistance program, last year we supported more than half a million veterans and over 300,000 service members who are pursuing a higher education. That's progress.  But it's not enough to just help our veterans and service members afford school - we need to make sure they have all the tools they need to make an informed decision when it comes to picking the right program.  The sad truth is that there are people out there who are less interested in helping our men and women in uniform get ahead and more interested in making a buck.  They bombard potential students with emails and pressure them into making a quick decision.  Some of them steer recruits towards high-interest loans and mislead them about credit transfers and job placement programs.  One of the worst examples was a college recruiter who visited a Marine barracks and enrolled Marines with brain injuries so severe that some of them couldn't recall what courses the recruiter had signed them up for.  That's appalling.  It's disgraceful.  And even though the vast majority of schools do the right thing, we need to guard against the bad actors who don't.  That's why, on Friday, I signed an Executive Order making life a whole lot more secure for our service members, veterans and their families - and a whole lot tougher for anyone who tries to prey on them. We're making sure veterans and service members get a simple fact sheet called "Know Before You Owe" that lays out all the information they need about financial aid and paying for college.  We're requiring schools to offer counseling to help students finish their degree even if they have to move or deploy.  And we're stepping up our efforts to fight dishonest recruiters by strengthening rules about who can come on base and making it easier to file complaints.  When our men and women in uniform succeed, our country succeeds.  They have our back - now it's our turn to have theirs.  And as long as I'm President, I'm going to make sure that anyone who serves this country gets every opportunity they deserve. Thank you, and have a great weekend.
--to thank our troops serving far from home, and to sign an historic agreement that will help us complete our mission and end the war.  As Commander-in-Chief, nothing is more humbling or inspiring than the chance to spend some time with our troops.  At Bagram Air Base, I visited with some of our outstanding men and women in uniform.  I thanked them for their extraordinary service.  And I let them know that America honors their sacrifice. Because of their bravery and dedication, the tide of war has turned in Afghanistan. We have broken the Taliban's momentum. We've built strong Afghan Security Forces. We have devastated al Qaeda's leadership. And one year ago, our troops launched the operation that killed Osama bin Laden. The goal that I set - to defeat al Qaeda, and deny it a chance to rebuild - is within reach. Because of the progress we have made, I was able to sign an historic agreement between the United States and Afghanistan that defines a new kind of relationship between our countries - a future in which Afghans are responsible for the security of their nation, and we build an equal partnership between two sovereign states; a future in which the war ends, and a new chapter begins. The enormous sacrifices of our men and women in uniform are not over.  But many of our troops are already coming home. Last year, we removed 10,000 U.S. troops from Afghanistan. Another 23,000 will leave by the end of the summer. As our coalition agreed, by the end of 2014, the Afghans will be fully responsible for the security of their country And this is as it should be.  Because after more than a decade of war, it is time to focus on nation building here at home. As a new greatest generation returns from overseas, we must ask ourselves, what kind of country will they come back to?  Will it be a country where a shrinking number of Americans do really well while a growing number barely get by?  Or will it be a country where everyone gets a fair shot, everyone does their fair share, and everyone plays by the same set of rules - a country with opportunity worthy of the troops who protect us? America has answered this question before. My grandfather, a veteran of Patton's Army, got the chance to go to college on the GI Bill.  My grandmother, who worked on a bomber assembly line, was part of a workforce that turned out the best products on Earth.  They contributed to a story of success that every American had the chance to share in, the basic American promise that if you work hard, you could do well enough to raise a family, own a home, send your kids to college, and put a little away for retirement.  Keeping that promise alive is the defining issue of our time. But it means making responsible choices. I don't think we should prioritize things like more tax cuts for millionaires while cutting the kinds of investments that built a strong middle class. That's why I've called on Congress to take the money we're no longer spending at war, use half of it to pay down our debt, and use the other half to rebuild America. Because we've got more jobs to create.  More students to educate.  More clean energy to generate.  More entrepreneurs with the next great idea, just looking for their shot at success. We've got to invest in things like education and medical research.  We've got to build newer, faster transportation and communication networks.  And we've got to secure the care and benefits our veterans have earned, so that we serve them as well as they have served us. Every time I have the privilege of meeting with our troops, I'm struck by their courage, their commitment, their selflessness, and their teamwork.  They have something to teach us.  Recovering from the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression is a work in progress - but if we follow their example, then I have no doubt we will preserve the promise of this country, protect the freedoms we cherish, and leave for our children an America that's built to last. God bless you, and have a great weekend.
.  This week, I got the chance to sit down with some impressive students at Lorain County Community College in Ohio.  One of them was a woman named Andrea Ashley.  Two years ago, Andrea lost her job as an HR analyst.  Today, she's getting certified in the fast-growing field of electronic medical records.  Before enrolling at Lorain, Andrea told me she was looking everywhere trying to find a new job.  But without a degree, she said that nobody would hire her. Andrea's story isn't unique.  I've met so many Americans who are out there pounding the pavement looking for work only to discover that they need new skills.  And I've met a lot of employers who are looking for workers, but can't find ones with the skills they're looking for. So we should be doing everything we can to put higher education within reach for every American - because at a time when the unemployment rate for Americans with at least a college degree is about half the national average, it's never been more important.  But here's the thing: it's also never been more expensive.  Students who take out loans to pay for college graduate owing an average of $25,000.  For the first time, Americans owe more debt on their student loans than they do on their credit cards.  And for many working families, the idea of owing that much money means that higher education is simply out of reach for their children. In America, higher education cannot be a luxury.  It's an economic imperative that every family must be able to afford.  That's why next week I'll be visiting colleges across the country, talking to students about how we can make higher education more affordable - and what's at stake right now if Congress doesn't do something about it.  You see, if Congress doesn't act, on July 1st interest rates on some student loans will double.  Nearly seven and half million students will end up owing more on their loan payments.  That would be a tremendous blow.  And it's completely preventable.  This issue didn't come out of nowhere.  For some time now, I've been calling on Congress to take steps to make higher education more affordable - to prevent these interest rates from doubling, to extend the tuition tax credit that has saved middle-class families millions of dollars, and to double the number of work-study jobs over the next five years. Instead, over the past few years, Republicans in Congress have voted against new ways to make college more affordable for middle-class families, and voted for huge new tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires - tax cuts that would have to be paid for by cutting things like education and job-training programs that give students new opportunities to work and succeed. We cannot just cut our way to prosperity.  Making it harder for our young people to afford higher education and earn their degrees is nothing more than cutting our own future off at the knees.  Congress needs to keep interest rates on student loans from doubling, and they need to do it now. This is a question of values.  We cannot let America become a country where a shrinking number of people do really well, while a growing number of people struggle to get by.  We've got to build an economy where everyone gets a fair shot, everyone does their fair share, and everyone plays by the same set of rules.  That's how the middle class gets stronger.  That's an economy that's built to last.  And I'm not only going to take that case to college campuses next week - I'm going to take it to every part of the country this year.  Thanks, and have a great weekend.
's hand.  Tonight, Jews will gather for a second Seder, where they will retell the story of the Exodus.  And tomorrow, my family will join Christians around the world as we thank God for the all-important gift of grace through the resurrection of His son, and experience the wonder of Easter morning. These holidays have their roots in miracles that took place thousands of years ago.  They connect us to our past and give us strength as we face the future.  And they remind us of the common thread of humanity that connects us all. For me, and for countless other Christians, Easter weekend is a time to reflect and rejoice.  Yesterday, many of us took a few quiet moments to try and fathom the tremendous sacrifice Jesus made for all of us. Tomorrow, we will celebrate the resurrection of a savior who died so that we might live. And throughout these sacred days, we recommit ourselves to following His example.  We rededicate our time on Earth to selflessness, and to loving our neighbors.  We remind ourselves that no matter who we are, or how much we achieve, we each stand humbled before an almighty God. Christ's triumph over death holds special meaning for Christians.  But all of us, no matter how or whether we believe, can identify with elements of His story.  The triumph of hope over despair.  Of faith over doubt. The notion that there is something out there that is bigger than ourselves. These beliefs help unite Americans of all faiths and backgrounds.  They shape our values and guide our work.  They put our lives in perspective. So to all Christians celebrating the Resurrection with us, Michelle and I want to wish you a blessed and Happy Easter.  And to all Americans, I hope you have a weekend filled with joy and reflection, focused on the things that matter most.  God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America.
.  After the worst recession of our lifetimes, it will take longer than any of us would like for the economy to fully recover.  But there are plenty of steps we can take to speed up the recovery.  There are things we can do - right now - to help create jobs and restore some of the financial security that so many families have lost.  Now, the other side isn't so optimistic.  They think all we can do is cut taxes - especially for the wealthiest Americans - and go back to letting banks and corporations write their own rules again.  That's their plan.  But I think they're wrong.  We tried their ideas for nearly a decade, and it didn't work out so well.  We can't go back to the same policies that got us into this mess.  We've got to move forward.  We need to build an economy where hard work and responsibility are rewarded - where you can find a good job, own your own home, maybe start a businesses, and give your kids the chance to do even better.  That's where we need to go.  And I've been pushing Congress to help us get there by passing a few common-sense policies that would make a difference.  Democrats and Republicans have already done some important work together - from passing tax cuts for workers, to opening up new markets for American products, to reforming our patent system.  But now we need to do more.  That's why we made Congress a handy "To-Do" list - just like the kind I get from Michelle.  It's short, but each of the ideas on this list will help create jobs and build a stronger economy right now.  First, Congress should stop giving tax breaks to companies that ship jobs overseas, and use that money to cover moving expenses for companies that bring jobs back to America.  Second, Congress should help the millions of Americans who have worked hard and made their mortgage payments on time refinance their mortgages at lower rates and save at least $3,000 a year.   Third, Congress should help small business owners by giving them a tax break for hiring more workers and paying them higher wages.  Small businesses are the engine of economic growth in this country.  We shouldn't be holding them back - we should be making it easier for them to succeed.   Fourth, if Congress fails to act soon, clean energy companies will see their taxes go up and could be forced to lay off employees.  These companies are putting Americans to work and helping break our dependence on foreign oil.  Congress should extend these tax credits.   And finally, Congress should help our veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan by creating a Veterans Job Corps.  Our men and women in uniform have served this country with honor.  Now it's our turn to serve them.   So that's Congress's "To-Do" List.  But now we need them to start crossing things off.  I need you to call your Members of Congress, write an email, tweet, and let them know we can't afford to wait any longer to get things done.  Tell them now is the time to take steps we know will grow our economy and create jobs.  You're working harder.  You're meeting your responsibilities.  Your representatives in Washington should do the same.  Let's push Congress to do the right thing.  Let's keep moving this country forward together.  Thanks, and have a great weekend.
've been fighting our way back from an historic economic crisis - one caused by breathtaking irresponsibility on the part of some on Wall Street who treated our financial system like a casino.  Not only did that behavior nearly destroy the financial system - it cost our economy millions of jobs, hurt middle-class families, and left taxpayers holding the bag.  Since then, we've recovered taxpayer dollars that were used to stabilize troubled banks.  And we've put in place Wall Street reform with smarter, tougher, commonsense rules that serve one primary purpose:  to prevent a crisis like that from ever happen i ng again.  And yet, for the past two years, too many Republicans in Congress and an army of financial industry lobbyists have actually been waging an all-out battle to delay, defund, and dismantle Wall Street reform.  Recently, we've seen why we can't let that happen.  We found out that a big mistake at one of our biggest banks resulted in a two billion dollar loss.  While that bank can handle a loss of that size, other banks may not have been able to.  And without Wall Street reform, we could have found ourselves with the taxpayers once again on the hook for Wall Street's mistakes. That's why it's so important that Members of Congress stand on the side of reform, not against it; because we can't afford to go back to an era of weak regulation and little oversight; where excessive risk-taking on Wall Street and a lack of basic oversight in Washington nearly destroyed our economy.  We can't afford to go back to that brand of 'you're-on-your-own' economics.  Not after the American people have worked so hard to come back from this crisis.  We've got to keep moving forward. We've got to finish the job of implementing this reform and putting these rules in place. These new rules say that, if you'rea big bank or financial institution, you now have to hold more cash on hand so that if you make a bad decision you pay for it, not the taxpayers.  You have to write out a "living will" that details how you'll be wound down if you do fail.  The new law takes away big bonuses and paydays from failed CEOs, while giving shareholders a say on executive salaries.  And for the first time in our nation's history, we have in place a consumer watchdog whose sole job is to look out for working families by protecting them from deceptive and unfair practices. So unless you run a financial institution whose business model is built on cheating consumers, or making risky bets that could damage the whole economy, you have nothing to fear from Wall Street reform.  Yes, it discourages big banks and financial institutions from making risky bets with taxpayer-insured money.  And it encourages them to do things that actually help the economy - like extending loans toentrepreneurs with good ideas, to middle-class families who want to buy a home, to students who want to pursue higher education.  That's what Wall Street reform is all about - making this economy stronger for you.  And we're going to keep working - to recover every job lost to the recession; to build an economy where hard work and responsibility are once again rewarded; to restore an America where everyone has a fair shot, everyone does their fair share, and everyone plays by the same rules. I believe the free market is one of the greatest forces for progress in human history; that businesses are the engine of growth; that risk-takers and innovators should be celebrated.  But I also believe that at its best, the free market has never been a license to take whatever you want, however you can get it.  Alongside our entrepreneurial spirit and rugged individualism, America only prospers when we meet our obligations to one another; and to future generations. If you agree with me, let your Member of Congress know.  Tell them to spend less time working to undermine rules that are there to protect the economy, and spend more time actually working to strengthen the economy.  Thanks and have a great weekend.
-earned moment to relax. But Memorial Day is more than a three-day weekend. In town squares and national cemeteries, in public services and moments of quiet reflection, we will honor those who loved their country enough to sacrifice their own lives for it. This Memorial Day, Michelle and I will join Gold Star families, veterans, and their families at Arlington National Cemetery. We'll pay tribute to patriots of every generation who gave the last full measure of devotion, from Lexington and Concord to Iraq and Afghanistan. Later that day, we'll join Vietnam veterans and their families at the Vietnam Veterans Memorial--the Wall. We'll begin to mark the 50th anniversary of the Vietnam War. It's another chance to honor those we lost at places like Hue, Khe Sanh, Danang and Hamburger Hill. And we'll be calling on you--the American people--to join us in thanking our Vietnam veterans in your communities. Even as we honor those who made the ultimate sacrifice, we reaffirm our commitment to care for those who served alongside them--the veterans who came home.  This includes our newest generation of veterans, from Iraq and Afghanistan. We have to serve them and their families as well as they have served us: By making sure that they get the healthcare and benefits they need; by caring for our wounded warriors and supporting our military families; and by giving veterans the chance to go to college, find a good job, and enjoy the freedom that they risked everything to protect. Our men and women in uniform took an oath to defend our country at all costs, and today, as members of the finest military the world has ever known, they uphold that oath with dignity and courage. As President, I have no higher honor than serving as their Commander-in-Chief.  But with that honor comes a solemn responsibility - one that gets driven home every time I sign a condolence letter, or meet a family member whose life has been turned upside down. No words can ever bring back a loved one who has been lost. No ceremony can do justice to their memory. No honor will ever fill their absence. But on Memorial Day, we come together as Americans to let these families and veterans know that they are not alone. We give thanks for those who sacrificed everything so that we could be free. And we commit ourselves to upholding the ideals for which so many patriots have fought and died. Thank you, God bless you, and have a wonderful weekend.
've been talking with folks across the country about how we're going to rebuild an economy where if you work hard, you and your family can get ahead. And right now, there's a big debate going on in Washington over two fundamentally different paths we can take as a country to do that.  One path - pushed by Republicans in Congress and their nominee for President - says that the best way to create prosperity is to let it trickle down from the top.  They believe that if we spend trillions more on tax cuts for the wealthy, it'll somehow create jobs - even if we have to pay for it by gutting education and training and by raising middle-class taxes. I think they're wrong.  We already tried it that way for most of the last decade, and it didn't work.  We're still paying for trillions of dollars in tax cuts that benefitted the wealthiest Americans more than anyone else; tax cuts that didn't lead to the rise in wages and middle class jobs that we were promised; and that helped take us from record surpluses to record deficits. The last thing we need right now is more top-down economics.  What we need are policies that will grow and strengthen the middle class; that will help create jobs, make education and training more affordable, and encourage businesses to start up and stay right here in the United States.  Soon, we'll face a choice between these two different approaches.  On January 1st, taxes are set to go up for tens of millions of Americans.  I think that would be a huge financial hit for middle-class families.  That's why I've cut middle-class taxes every year that I've been President - by $3,600 for the typical family.  And that's why, this week, I called on Congress to immediately stop the January 1st tax hike from hitting any American on the first $250,000 of their income.   Under my plan, 98% of American families won't see their income taxes go up at all.  But the other 2% of Americans will have to pay a little more in taxes on anything they make over $250,000.  In other words, the wealthiest few Americans will go back to the income tax rates they were paying under Bill Clinton.  And if you remember, that was when our economy created nearly 23 million new jobs, the biggest budget surplus in history, and millionaires were doing pretty well.  The folks in Congress and on the campaign trail who oppose this plan warn that it would somehow hurt small businesses and job creators.  Well, they're completely ignoring the facts.  Under my plan, 97% of small business owners would avoid getting hit with any income tax hike whatsoever.  In fact, I've cut taxes for small businesses eighteen times since I've been President.  And just this week, I ordered a series of new steps to help our small businesses grow and hire.  The only place we disagree is whether we keep giving tax cuts to the wealthiest 2% of Americans.  Republicans in Washington want more of those tax cuts.  With the deficit we have, I don't think we can afford them.  But even if we disagree on the tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans, we all agree that no American should pay more taxes on the first $250,000 of their income.  So let's at least agree to do what we all agree on.  That's what compromise is all about.  Let's not hold the vast majority of Americans and our entire economy hostage while we debate the merits of another tax cut for the wealthy.  Let's skip the unnecessary drama, the needless delays and all the partisan posturing and let's just do the right thing for the people who sent us here to serve.  And I'm going to keep fighting to make sure we rebuild an economy that rewards work, grows the middle class, and gives new opportunity to those trying to earn their way into the middle class. Thanks, and have a great weekend.
.  Dozens more are being treated for injuries at local hospitals.  Some of the victims are being treated at a children's hospital.  We are still gathering all the facts about what happened, but we do know that the police have one suspect in custody.  And the federal government stands ready to do everything necessary to bring whoever's responsible for this heinous crime to justice.  We will take every step possible to ensure the safety of all our people.  And we will stand by our neighbors in Colorado during this extraordinarily difficult time. Even as we come to learn how this happened and who's responsible, we may never understand what leads anyone to terrorize their fellow human beings.  Such evil is senseless - beyond reason.  But while we will never know fully what causes someone to take the life of another, we do know what makes that life worth living.  The people we lost in Aurora loved, and were loved.  They were mothers and fathers; husbands and wives; sisters and brothers; sons and daughters; friends and neighbors.  They had hopes for the future and dreams that were not yet fulfilled.  And if there's anything to take away from this tragedy, it's a reminder that life is fragile.  Our time here is limited and it is precious.  And what matters in the end are not the small and trivial things which often consume our lives.  It's how we choose to treat one another, and love one another.  It's what we do on a daily basis to give our lives meaning and to give our lives purpose.  That's what matters.  That's why we're here. I'm sure many of you who are parents had the same reaction I did when you first heard this news: what if it had been my daughters at the theater, doing what young children enjoy doing every day?  Michelle and I will be fortunate enough to hug our girls a little tighter this weekend, as I'm sure you will do with your children.  But for those parents who may not be so fortunate, we need to embrace them and let them know we will be there for them as a nation. This weekend I hope everyone takes some time for prayer and reflection - for the victims of this terrible tragedy, for the people who knew them and loved them, for those who are still struggling to recover, and for all the victims of the less publicized acts of violence that plague our communities on a daily basis.  Let us keep all these Americans in our prayers.  And to the people of Aurora, may the Lord bring you comfort and healing in the hard days to come.
- a tax hike of $2,200 for the typical family. Now it comes down to this: If 218 Members of the House vote the right way, 98% of American families and 97% of small business owners will have the certainty of knowing that that their income taxes will not go up next year. That certainty means something to a middle class family who's already stretched the budget as far as it can go.  It means something to a small business owner who's trying to plan ahead.  That's security at a time when folks could use some. And here's the thing: everyone in Washington says they agree on this.  Everyone says they agree that we should extend the tax cuts for the middle class.  When Democrats and Republicans agree on something, it should be pretty easy to get it done.      But right now, that's not the case.  Instead of doing what's right for middle class families and small business owners, Republicans in Congress are holding these tax cuts hostage until we extend tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans. You see, Republicans in Congress and their nominee for President believe that the best way to create prosperity in America is to let it trickle down from the top.  They believe that if our country spends trillions more on tax cuts for the wealthy, we'll somehow create jobs - even if we have to pay for it by gutting things like education and training and by raising middle-class taxes. They're wrong.  And I know they're wrong because we already tried it that way for most of the last decade.  It didn't work.  We're still paying for trillions of dollars in tax cuts that benefitted the wealthiest Americans more than anyone else; tax cuts that didn't lead to the middle class jobs or higher wages we were promised and that helped take us from record surpluses to record deficits.  We can't afford more top-down economics.  What we need are policies that will grow and strengthen the middle class; that will help create jobs, make education and training more affordable, and encourage businesses to start up and stay right here in the United States.  That's why I've cut middle-class taxes every year that I've been President - by $3,600 for the typical family.  That's why I've cut taxes for small businesses eighteen times.  And that's why I'm calling on 218 Members of the House to do their job and not raise taxes on the middle class.  As soon as they pass that bill, I'll sign it right away.  And in the meantime, I'm going to keep fighting for an economy where we're not just putting folks back to work, but making sure that work pays off - an economy where every American, no matter who you are, what you look like, or where you come from, can have the confidence that if you work hard, you can get ahead.  Thanks, and have a great weekend.
. Today, I want to talk about something that most of you know already - it's hot outside. It's really hot. And if this feels worse than normal, that's because it is. We just found out that the month of July was the warmest month on record - warmer than any other month since we began keeping track more than a century ago. But the heat is just half the story. We're also suffering through one of the worst droughts in over 50 years. More than a fifth of this country is experiencing what we call "extreme" or "exceptional" drought - with states like Nebraska, Kansas, Missouri, Oklahoma and Arkansas getting hit harder than most. That's bad news for a lot of people, but it's especially tough on our farmers. Right now, half of the corn crop in America is in poor or very poor condition. Cattle farmers are struggling to feed their animals. Many folks are seeing their livelihoods dry up in front of their eyes. And if we don't get relief soon, Americans everywhere will start feeling the pinch, with higher prices on grocery store shelves all across the country. We can't let that happen. That's why, at my direction, the Department of Agriculture, led by Secretary Vilsack, has been working with other agencies across the federal government to make sure we're doing everything we can to help farmers and ranchers fight back and recover from this disaster. Already, we've given farmers across 32 states access to low-interest emergency loans. We've opened up more federal land for grazing. And we're working with crop insurance companies to give farmers a short grace period on their premiums, since some families will be struggling to make ends meet at the end of the year. This past week, we went even further - announcing an additional $30 million to help get more water to livestock and restore land affected by the drought. We're making it easier for even more farmers, ranchers and businesses to get emergency loans. And the Department of Transportation is helping more truck drivers deliver supplies to states that need them the most. This is an all-hands-on-deck response, and we'll be doing even more in the coming weeks to help families and communities that are suffering right now. But my Administration can't do it alone. Congress needs to do its part, too. They need to pass a farm bill that not only helps farmers and ranchers respond to these kinds of disasters, but also makes necessary reforms and gives them some certainty year-round. That's the single best way we can help rural communities right now, and also in the long-term. So call your Members of Congress, write them an email, and tell them that now is the time to come together and get this done. Too many Americans are suffering right now to let politics get in the way. Let's help farmers, ranchers and business owners recover. Let's make sure that families who already stretch their budgets to the limit don't have to pay more for groceries this fall. In the meantime, I'll keep doing everything I can to help respond to this disaster. Because at times like these, it doesn't matter if you live in Des Moines or Detroit - we're Americans first. And if we look out for each other, we'll come out of this stronger than before. Have a great weekend, everybody. And stay cool.
.  This week, I spent some time traveling across Iowa talking with folks about rebuilding an economy where if you work hard, you and your family can get ahead.  And along the way, I stopped in at Cascade High School to thank the teachers there for doing such a great job - and wish them luck as they head back to the classroom for this school year. There's nothing more important to our country's future than the education we give our kids. And there's no one more important to that education than the person at the front of the classroom.  Teachers matter.  Most work tirelessly, with modest pay, sometimes digging into their own pocket for school supplies - just to make a difference.  They give everything for our kids - and in return, we should invest in them. But here's the thing: this year, several thousand fewer educators will be going back to school.  Since 2009, we've lost more than 300,000 education jobs, in part, because of budget cuts at the state and local level.  Think about what that means for our country.  At a time when the rest of the world is racing to out-educate America; these cuts force our kids into crowded classrooms, cancel programs for preschoolers and kindergarteners, and shorten the school week and the school year.  That's the opposite of what we should be doing as a country.  States should be making education a priority in their budgets, even in tough fiscal times.  And Congress should be willing to help out - because this affects all of us. That's why part of the jobs bill that I sent to Congress last September included support for states to prevent further layoffs and to rehire teachers who'd lost their jobs.  But here we are - a year later with tens of thousands more educators laid off - and Congress still hasn't done anything about it. In fact, the economic plan that almost every Republican in Congress voted for would make the situation even worse.  It would actually cut funding for education - which means fewer kids in Head Start, fewer teachers in our classrooms, and fewer college students with access to financial aid - all to pay for a massive new tax cut for millionaires and billionaires.  That's backwards.  That's wrong.  That plan doesn't invest in our future; it undercuts our future.  If we want America to lead in the 21st century, nothing is more important than giving everyone the best education possible - from the day they start preschool to the day they start their career. That's why we launched a national competition to improve our schools.  And for less than one percent of what our nation spends on education each year, we've encouraged almost every state to raise their standards - the first time that's happened in a generation. That's why we've invested in math and science education, and given states more flexibility on No Child Left Behind. And that's why we've reformed the student loan program to put students before big banks, and increased financial aid for millions of young people - because in America, higher education cannot be a luxury; it's an economic necessity every family should be able to afford. This is a country where no matter what you look like or where you come from, if you're willing to study and work hard, you can go as far as your talents will take you.  You can make it if you try.  I am only the President of the United States today because of the chance my education gave me.  I want every child in America to have that chance.  That's what I'm fighting for.  And as long as I have the privilege of being your President, that's what I'm going to keep fighting for. Thanks, and have a great weekend.
. Over the last few weeks, there's been a lot of talk about Medicare, with a lot of accusations and misinformation flying around. So today I want to step back for a minute and share with you some actual facts and news about the program. This week, we found out that, thanks to the health care law we passed, nearly 5.4 million seniors with Medicare have saved over $4.1 billion on prescription drugs. That's an average of more than $700 per person. And this year alone, 18 million seniors with Medicare have taken advantage of preventive care benefits like mammograms or other cancer screenings that now come at no extra cost. That's progress. It means that seniors everywhere are getting the care they need for less. And if you have questions about what benefits you're entitled to, you can go to  www.medicare.gov  to find out. This news is also a reminder of what's really at stake when we talk about the future of Medicare. It's not about overheated rhetoric at election time. It's about a promise this country made to our seniors that says if you put in a lifetime of hard work, you shouldn't lose your home or your life savings just because you get sick. Over the last 47 years, millions of Americans have worked for that promise. They've earned it. And for many seniors, the care they've gotten through Medicare has made all the difference in the world. Growing up as the son of a single mother, I was raised with the help of my grandparents. I saw how important things like Medicare and Social Security were in their lives. And I saw the peace of mind it gave them. That's why, as President, my goal has been to strengthen these programs now, and preserve them for future generations. Because today's seniors deserve that same peace of mind. And the millions of Americans who are working hard right now deserve to know that the care they need will be available when they need it. That's why, as part of the Affordable Care Act, we gave seniors deeper discounts on prescription drugs, and made sure preventive care like mammograms are free without a co-pay. We've extended the life of Medicare by almost a decade. And I've proposed reforms that will save Medicare money by getting rid of wasteful spending in the health care system and reining in insurance companies - reforms that won't touch your guaranteed Medicare benefits. Not by a single dime. Republicans in Congress have put forward a very different plan. They want to turn Medicare into a voucher program. That means that instead of being guaranteed Medicare, seniors would get a voucher to buy insurance, but it wouldn't keep up with costs. As a result, one plan would force seniors to pay an extra $6,400 a year for the same benefits they get now. And it would effectively end Medicare as we know it. I think our seniors deserve better. I'm willing to work with anyone to keep improving the current system, but I refuse to do anything that undermines the basic idea of Medicare as a guarantee for seniors who get sick. Here in America, we believe in keeping our promises - especially to our seniors who have put in a lifetime of hard work and deserve to enjoy their golden years. That's what Medicare is all about. That's why we need to strengthen and preserve it for future generations. And as long as I have the honor of serving as your President, that's exactly what I'll do. Thanks, and have a great weekend.
.  It's a time to remember the nearly 3,000 innocent men, women and children we lost, and the families they left behind.  It's a chance to honor the courage of the first responders who risked their lives - on that day, and every day since.  And it's an opportunity to give thanks for our men and women in uniform who have served and sacrificed, sometimes far from home, to keep our country safe.   This anniversary is about them.  It's also a time to reflect on just how far we've come as a nation these past eleven years.    On that clear September morning, as America watched the towers fall, and the Pentagon burn, and the wreckage smoldering in a Pennsylvania field, we were filled with questions.  Where had the attacks come from, and how would America respond?  Would they fundamentally weaken the country we love?  Would they change who we are?    The last decade has been a difficult one, but together, we have answered those questions and come back stronger as a nation.    We took the fight to al Qaeda, decimated their leadership, and put them on a path to defeat.  And thanks to the courage and skill of our intelligence personnel and armed forces, Osama bin Laden will never threaten America again.   Instead of pulling back from the world, we've strengthened our alliances while improving our security here at home.  As Americans, we refuse to live in fear.  Today, a new tower rises above the New York skyline.  And our country is stronger, safer and more respected in the world.   Instead of turning on each other, we've resisted the temptation to give in to mistrust and suspicion.  I have always said that America is at war with al Qaeda and its affiliates - and we will never be at war with Islam or any other religion.  We are the United States of America.  Our freedom and diversity make us unique, and they will always be central to who we are as a nation.   Instead of changing who we are, the attacks have brought out the best in the American people.  More than 5 million members of the 9/11 Generation have worn America's uniform over the past decade, and we've seen an outpouring of goodwill towards our military, veterans, and their families.  Together, they've done everything we've asked of them.  We've ended the war in Iraq and brought our troops home.  We brought an end to the Taliban regime.  We've trained Afghan Security Forces, and forged a partnership with a new Afghan Government.  And by the end 2014, the transition in Afghanistan will be complete and our war there will be over.   And finally, instead of turning inward with grief, we've honored the memory of those we lost by giving back to our communities, serving those in need, and reaffirming the values at the heart of who we are as a people.  That's why we mark September 11th as a National Day of Service and Remembrance.  Because we are one American family.  And we look out for each other - not just on the difficult days, but every day.   Eleven years later, that's the legacy of 9/11 - the ability to say with confidence that no adversary and no act of terrorism can change who we are.  We are Americans, and we will protect and preserve this country we love.  On this solemn anniversary, let's remember those we lost, let us reaffirm the values they stood for, and let us keep moving forward as one nation and one people.
. Last week, without much fanfare, Members of the House of Representatives banged a gavel, turned out the lights, and rushed home, declaring their work finished for now. If that frustrates you, it should - because their work isn't finished. See, when they skipped town, Members of Congress left a whole bunch of proposals sitting on the table - actions that would create jobs, boost our economy, and strengthen middle-class security. These ideas have been around for months. The American people want to see them passed. But apparently, some Members of Congress are more worried about their jobs and their paychecks this campaign season than they are about yours. Right now, if Congress had done the right thing, we could be on our way to having a veterans' jobs corps that helps returning heroes find work as cops and firefighters in communities all across the country. These men and women have made incredible sacrifices for our country. They shouldn't have to worry about finding a job when they get home. But last week, Republicans in Congress voted it down. And then they left. Right now, if Congress had gotten its act together, we would have a farm bill to help farmers and ranchers respond to natural disasters like the drought we had this summer. And we'd have made necessary reforms to give our rural communities some long-term certainty. But so far, Republicans in Congress have dragged their feet. And now they're gone. Right now, if Congress had acted, thousands of responsible homeowners could be saving an extra $3,000 a year on their mortgages by refinancing at historically low rates. But instead, Republicans in Congress decided that working families could wait. And now they'll have to wait a little longer. And finally, if Congress had listened to you, they could have given 98% of Americans and 97% of small business owners a guarantee that your taxes won't go up next year by a single dime. This is something we all agree on. It should have gotten done a long time ago. But Republicans in Congress have refused to budge. They're holding tax cuts for 98% of Americans hostage until we pass tax cuts for the wealthiest 2% of Americans. And now middle-class families and small business owners are left wondering what their tax bill will look like next year. All of these ideas would strengthen our economy and help the middle class right now. All of them are supported by Democrats, Republicans and Independents. There's no reason to wait. That's why, after going home and listening to their constituents for a few weeks, Members of Congress should come back in November and do this work. They should do the right thing for veterans and farmers; for responsible homeowners and small businesses; for Americans everywhere who are just trying to get ahead. And if you agree with me, I need your help. Tell your Members of Congress you can't afford to wait any longer. If you get an answering machine, leave a message. If you see them campaigning back home, tell them in person. Because there's been enough talk. It's time for action. That's what you deserve, and that's what it's going to take to move this country forward. Thanks, and have a great weekend.
.  Four years ago this month, a crisis that started out on Wall Street almost brought down our entire economy.  The nation's biggest banks were days away from failing.  The stock market - and millions of American retirement accounts - were in free-fall.  Credit froze.  Lending stopped.  And businesses large and small didn't even know if they'd be able to make payroll.  It was a moment the likes of which few Americans had ever seen. Today, we know the biggest cause of that crisis was reckless behavior in the housing market.  Millions of Americans who did the right and responsible thing - who shopped for a home, secured a mortgage they could afford, and made their payments on time - were badly hurt by the irresponsible actions of others.  By lenders who sold loans to families who couldn't afford them - and buyers who knew they couldn't afford them.  By speculators who were looking to make a quick buck.  And by banks that packaged and sold those risky mortgages for phony profits.  When the party stopped, and the housing bubble burst, it pushed our entire economy into a historic recession - and left middle-class families holding the bag. Four years later, the housing market is healing.  Home sales and construction are up.  Prices are beginning to rise.  And more than a million families who began this year owing more on their mortgages than their homes are worth, are now back above water.  We're moving in the right direction.  But we're not there yet.  There are still millions of Americans who are struggling with their mortgages, even at a time of historically low rates.   Now, I know there are some who think that the only option for homeowners is to just stand by and hope that the market has hit bottom.  I don't agree with that. That's why my Administration teamed up with state attorneys general to investigate the terrible way many homeowners were treated, and secured a settlement from the nation's biggest banks - banks that were bailed out with taxpayer dollars - to help families stay in their homes. And that's why we announced new steps to help responsible homeowners refinance their mortgages.  Already, hundreds of thousands of Americans who were stuck in high-interest loans have been able to take advantage of lower rates and save thousands of dollars every year.  That's not only good for those families; it's also good for our economy.  When folks are spending less on mortgage payments, they're spending more at local businesses.  And when those businesses have more customers, they start hiring more workers.    But we can do even more if Congress is willing to do their part. Back in February I sent Congress a plan to give every responsible homeowner the chance to save about $3,000 a year on their mortgages by refinancing at lower rates.  It's a plan that has the support of independent, nonpartisan economists and leaders across the housing industry.  But Republicans in Congress worked to keep it from even getting to a vote.  And here we are - seven months later - still waiting on Congress to act. This makes no sense.  Last week, mortgage rates were at historic lows.  But instead of helping more and more hardworking families take advantage of those rates, Congress was away on break.  Instead of worrying about you, they'd already gone home to worry about their campaigns. The truth is, it's going to take a while for our housing market to fully recover.  But it's going to take a lot more time - and cause a lot more hurt - if Congress keeps standing in the way.  If you agree with me, I hope you'll make your voices heard.  Call your Representative.  Send them an email.  Show up at their town hall and tell them that when Congress comes back to Washington, they better come back ready to work.  All of you are doing everything you can to meet your responsibilities.  It's time Congress did the same.  Thanks and have a great weekend.
. Every year around this time, American car companies start rolling out their newest, shiniest models, hoping to entice you into buying one. It's Detroit's chance to show you what they've been working on - the latest and greatest. And this year is no exception. They've got some pretty good-looking cars coming out. But something is different this time around - and it starts with the auto companies themselves. Just a few years ago, the auto industry wasn't just struggling - it was flatlining. GM and Chrysler were on the verge of collapse. Suppliers and distributors were at risk of going under. More than a million jobs across the country were on the line - and not just auto jobs, but the jobs of teachers, small business owners, and everyone in communities that depend on this great American industry. But we refused to throw in the towel and do nothing. We refused to let Detroit go bankrupt. We bet on American workers and American ingenuity, and three years later, that bet is paying off in a big way. Today, auto sales are the highest they've been in more than four years. GM is back. Ford and Chrysler are growing again. Together, our auto industry has created nearly a quarter of a million new jobs right here in America. And we're not just making more cars and trucks - we're making better ones. After 30 years of inaction, we raised fuel standards so that by the middle of the next decade, cars and light trucks will average almost 55 miles per gallon - nearly double what they get today. That means you'll only have to fill up every two weeks instead of every week. It's good for your wallet, it's good for our economy, and it's good for the environment. The technology that makes it happen will also help America stay on the cutting edge for decades to come. Just this week, GM announced they plan to hire 1,500 workers for a new research center in Michigan to help make sure the high-tech cars of tomorrow are designed and built right here in America. I've also signed new bipartisan trade agreements into law, because I want to see more cars on the road in places like South Korea imported from Detroit and Toledo and Chicago. All of this is something the American people can and should be proud of. It's a reminder that when the American people put their mind to something, there's nothing we can't do. So next time you see one of those brand new 2013 models on TV or on the lot, think about how far we've come together. Think about how - thanks to the hard work and can-do spirit of the American people - more of those cars and trucks are being manufactured by American workers at American companies in communities all across the country. And they're going to save you more money at the pump. That's what America is all about. When we get knocked down, we get back up. We come back stronger. And as long as I'm President, that's what we'll keep doing. Thanks, and have a great weekend.
'm speaking to you today from Manitowoc, Wisconsin, where I'm at an innovative company called Orion Energy Systems.  Just a few years ago, this was an empty warehouse.  A major employer had shut down this factory, moved its operations abroad, and took a lot of jobs away from this town.  But today, as you can see behind me, this is a thriving enterprise once more. You are looking at a factory where 250 workers are building advanced clean energy systems - state-of-the-art technologies that use solar power and energy efficiency to save farms and businesses thousands of dollars on their utility bills.  I'm here because this business and others like it are showing us the way forward. And in the coming days, I'll be shining a spotlight on innovators across America who are relying on new technologies to create new jobs and opportunities in new industries.     That's what companies like Orion are doing.  And that's how America will win the future - by out-innovating, out-educating, and out-building our competitors.  We'll win the future by being the best place on Earth to do business.  That is what we are called to do at this moment. And in my state of the union, I talked about how we get there.  It starts by making sure that every single child can get a good education and every American can afford college or career training. Because that's what will help light the spark in the minds of innovators - and ensure that our people have the skills to work for innovative companies.  We also need to make sure that America can move goods and information as fast as any of our competitors, whether on the road or online. Because good infrastructure helps our businesses sell their products and services faster and cheaper.  We have to reform our government and cut wasteful spending, so that we eliminate what we don't need to pay for the investments we need to grow, like education and medical research.  And as we can see here in Manitowoc, we need to ensure that we are promoting innovation - especially in promising areas like clean energy.  This is going to be key to growing our economy and helping businesses create jobs. Orion, for example, was able to open with the help of small business loans and incentives that are creating demand for clean energy technologies like wind power and solar panels.  That's why I've proposed a bigger tax credit for the research that companies do. And to give these companies the certainty of knowing there will be a market for what they sell, I've set this goal for America: by 2035, 80 percent of electricity should come from clean energy.  This is going to help spark innovation at businesses across America. This is going to spur new products and technologies. This is going to lead to good, new jobs.  And that's how we win the future - by unleashing the talent and ingenuity of American businesses and American workers in every corner of this country.  So to those who say that America's best days are behind us, let them come here, to Manitowoc. Let them come to this once-shuttered factory that is now bustling with workers building new technologies for the world.  Let them come here to see the incredible promise of our country.  This is the future. And it's bright.  Thank you.
're continuing to move in the right direction.  But we need to get there faster.  In the short-term, the bipartisan tax cut we passed in December will give an added boost to job creation and economic growth.  This is a tax cut that is already making Americans' paychecks a little bigger and giving businesses more incentive to invest and hire.   But ultimately, our true measure of progress has to be whether every American who wants a job can find one; whether the jobs available pay well and offer good benefits; whether people in this country can still achieve the American Dream for themselves and their children.  That's the progress we're after.     To get there, we have to realize that in today's global, competitive economy, the best jobs and newest industries will take root in the countries with the most skilled workers, the strongest commitment to research and technology, and the fastest ways to move people, goods, and information.  To win the future, America needs to out-educate, out-innovate, and out-build the rest of the world.   On Thursday, I went to Penn State University, whose students and researchers are poised to lead the way on innovation and job creation.  They're taking up the challenge we've issued to scientists and engineers all across the country:  if you assemble teams of the best minds in your field, and focus on tackling the biggest obstacles to providing America with clean, affordable energy, we'll get behind your work.  Your government will support your research.   The folks in Pennsylvania have decided to focus on designing buildings that save more energy - everything from more efficient lighting and windows to heating and cooling.  This won't just cut down on energy pollution, it can save us billions of dollars on our energy bills.   Most of all, discovering new ways to make buildings more energy-efficient will lead to new jobs and new businesses.  Over the last two years, we've seen a window manufacturer in Maryland boost business by 55%.  A lighting company in North Carolina hired hundreds of workers. A manufacturer in Pennsylvania saw business increase by $1 million.   All we did for these companies was provide some tax credits and financing opportunities.  And that's what we want to do going forward, so that it's profitable for American businesses to sell the discoveries made by the scientists at Penn State and other hubs of innovation.  If businesses sell these discoveries - if they start making windows and insulation and buildings that save more energy - they will hire more workers.  And that's how Americans will prosper.  That's how we'll win the future.   Our government has an obligation to make sure that America is the best place on Earth to do business - that we have the best schools, the best incentives to innovate, and the best infrastructure.  Next week, I'll see that kind of infrastructure when I visit Marquette, Michigan - a place where high-speed broadband is connecting a small town to the larger world.   Supporting businesses with this kind of 21st century infrastructure and cutting-edge innovation is our responsibility.  But businesses have a responsibility, too.  If we make America the best place to do business, businesses should make their mark in America.  They should set up shop here, and hire our workers, and pay decent wages, and invest in the future of this nation.  That's their obligation.  And that's the message I'll be bringing to American business leaders at the Chamber of Commerce on Monday - that government and businesses have mutual responsibilities; and that if we fulfill these obligations together, it benefits us all.  Our workers will succeed.  Our nation will prosper.  And America will win the future in this century just like we did in the last.
've gained almost 2 million private sector jobs over the last 13 months. But I also know that a lot of folks aren't feeling as positive as some of those statistics might suggest. It's still too hard to find a job. And even if you have a job, chances are you're having a tougher time paying the rising costs of everything from groceries to gas. In some places, gas is now more than $4 a gallon, meaning that you could be paying upwards of $50 or $60 to fill up your tank.  Of course, while rising gas prices mean real pain for our families at the pump, they also mean bigger profits for oil companies. This week, the largest oil companies announced that they'd made more than $25 billion in the first few months of 2011 - up about 30 percent from last year.  Now, I don't have a problem with any company or industry being rewarded for their success. The incentive of healthy profits is what fuels entrepreneurialism and helps drives our economy forward. But I do have a problem with the unwarranted taxpayer subsidies we've been handing out to oil and gas companies - to the tune of $4 billion a year. When oil companies are making huge profits and you're struggling at the pump, and we're scouring the federal budget for spending we can afford to do without, these tax giveaways aren't right. They aren't smart. And we need to end them.  That's why, earlier this week, I renewed my call to Congress to stop subsidizing the oil and gas industries.  Understand, I'm not opposed to producing oil. I believe that if we're serious about meeting our energy challenge, we need to operate on all cylinders, and that means pursuing a broad range of energy policies, including safe and responsible oil production here at home. In fact, last year, America's oil production reached its highest level since 2003.  But I also believe that instead of subsidizing yesterday's energy, we should invest in tomorrow's - and that's what we've been doing. Already, we've seen how the investments we're making in clean energy can lead to new jobs and new businesses. I've seen some of them myself - small businesses that are making the most of solar and wind power, and energy-efficient technologies; big companies that are making fuel-efficient cars and trucks part of their vehicle fleets. And to promote these kinds of vehicles, we implemented historic new fuel-economy standards, which could save you as much as $3,000 at the pump.  Now, I know that in this tough fiscal environment, it's tempting for some in Washington to want to cut our investments in clean energy. And I absolutely agree that the only way we'll be able to afford the things we need is if we cut the things we don't, and live within our means. But I refuse to cut things like clean energy that will help America win the future by growing our economy and creating good-paying jobs; that will help make America more secure; and that will help clean up our planet in the process. An investment in clean energy today is an investment in a better tomorrow. And I think that's an investment worth making. Thanks for listening, and have a great weekend.
.C. Recently, there have been signs that the economy is picking up steam.  Last month, we saw the strongest job growth in five years, and have added more than three-quarters of a million private sector jobs in just three months.  But there are still too many Americans who are either looking for work, or struggling to pay the bills and make the mortgage.  Paychecks aren't getting any bigger, but the cost of everything from groceries to college tuition keeps on rising.  Without a doubt, one of the biggest burdens over the last few months has been the price of gasoline.  In many places, gas is now more than $4 a gallon, meaning that you could be paying more than $60 to fill up your tank. These spikes in gas prices are often temporary, and while there are no quick fixes to the problem, there are a few steps we should take that make good sense. First, we should make sure that no one is taking advantage of consumers at the pump.  That's why we've launched a task force led by the Attorney General that has one job: rooting out cases of fraud or manipulation in the markets that might affect gas prices, including any illegal activity by traders and speculators.  Second, we should increase safe and responsible oil production here at home.  Last year, America's oil production reached its highest level since 2003.  But I believe that we should expand oil production in America - even as we increase safety and environmental standards.  To do this, I am directing the Department of Interior to conduct annual lease sales in Alaska's National Petroleum Reserve, while respecting sensitive areas, and to speed up the evaluation of oil and gas resources in the mid and south Atlantic.  We plan to lease new areas in the Gulf of Mexico as well, and work to create new incentives for industry to develop their unused leases both on and offshore. We're also taking steps to give companies time to meet higher safety standards when it comes to exploration and drilling.  That's why my Administration is extending drilling leases in areas of the Gulf that were impacted by the temporary moratorium, as well as certain areas off the coast of Alaska.  And to streamline that permitting process, I am establishing a new team to coordinate work on Alaska drilling permits. Finally, the third step we should take is to eliminate the taxpayer subsidies we give to oil and gas companies.  In the last few months, the biggest oil companies made about $4 billion in profits each week.  And yet, they get $4 billion in taxpayer subsidies each year.  Four billion dollars at a time when Americans can barely fill up their tanks.  Four billion dollars at a time when we're trying to reduce our deficit.  This isn't fair, it makes no sense.  Before I was President, the CEOs of these companies even admitted that the tax subsidies made no sense.  Well, next week, there is a vote in Congress to end these oil company giveaways once and for all.  And I hope Democrats and Republicans come together and get this done.  The American people shouldn't be subsidizing oil companies at a time when they're making near-record profits.  As a nation, we should be investing in the clean, renewable sources of energy that are the ultimate solution to high-gas prices.  That's why we're investing in clean energy technology, helping businesses that manufacture solar panels and wind turbines, and making sure that our cars and trucks can go further on a tank of gas - a step that could save families as much as $3,000 at the pump. These are investments worth making - investments that will save us money, reduce our dependence on foreign oil, and protect the health and safety of our planet.  That's an energy policy for the future, and it's what I'll be fighting for in the weeks and months to come. Thanks.
.  It's a chance to give thanks for our blessings and reaffirm our faith, while spending time with the people we love.  We all know how important that is - especially in hard times.  And that's what a lot of people are facing these days.   Even though the economy is growing again and we've seen businesses adding jobs over the past year, many are still looking for work. And even if you haven't faced a job loss, it's still not easy out there.  Your paycheck isn't getting bigger, while the cost of everything from college for your kids to gas for your car keeps rising.  That's something on a lot of people's minds right now, with gas prices at $4 a gallon.  It's just another burden when things were already pretty tough.   Now, whenever gas prices shoot up, like clockwork, you see politicians racing to the cameras, waving three-point plans for two dollar gas.  You see people trying to grab headlines or score a few points.  The truth is, there's no silver bullet that can bring down gas prices right away.   But there are a few things we can do.  This includes safe and responsible production of oil at home, which we are pursuing.  In fact, last year, American oil production reached its highest level since 2003.  On Thursday, my Attorney General also launched a task force with just one job: rooting out cases of fraud or manipulation in the oil markets that might affect gas prices, including any illegal activity by traders and speculators.  We're going to make sure that no one is taking advantage of the American people for their own short-term gain.  And another step we need to take is to finally end the $4 billion in taxpayer subsidies we give to the oil and gas companies each year.  That's $4 billion of your money going to these companies when they're making record profits and you're paying near record prices at the pump.  It has to stop.   Instead of subsidizing yesterday's energy sources, we need to invest in tomorrow's. We need to invest in clean, renewable energy. In the long term, that's the answer. That's the key to helping families at the pump and reducing our dependence on foreign oil.  We can see that promise already. Thanks to an historic agreement we secured with all the major auto companies, we're raising the fuel economy of cars and trucks in America, using hybrid technology and other advances.  As a result, if you buy a new car in the next few years, the better gas mileage is going to save you about $3,000 at the pump.   But we need to do more.  We need to harness the potential I've seen at promising start-ups and innovative clean energy companies across America.  And that's at the heart of a debate we're having right now in Washington about the budget.   Both Democrats and Republicans believe we need to reduce the deficit.  That's where we agree.  The question we're debating is how we do it.  I've proposed a balanced approach that cuts spending while still investing in things like education and clean energy that are so critical to creating jobs and opportunities for the middle class.  It's a simple idea: we need to live within our means while at the same time investing in our future.   That's why I disagree so strongly with a proposal in Congress that cuts our investments in clean energy by 70 percent. Yes, we have to get rid of wasteful spending - and make no mistake, we're going through every line of the budget scouring for savings. But we can do that without sacrificing our future.  We can do that while still investing in the technologies that will create jobs and allow the United States to lead the world in new industries.  That's how we'll not only reduce the deficit, but also lower our dependence on foreign oil, grow the economy, and leave for our children a safer planet.  And that's what our mission has to be.   Thanks for listening, and have a great weekend.
- a positive sign of growth. But too many of our small business owners and those who aspire to start their own small businesses continue to struggle, in part because they can't get the credit they need to start up, grow, and hire.  And too many Americans whose livelihoods have fallen prey to the worst recession in our lifetimes - a recession that cost our economy eight million jobs - still wonder how they'll make ends meet. That's why we need to take new, commonsense steps to help small businesses, grow our economy, and create jobs - and we need to take them now. For months, that's what we've been trying to do.  But too often, the Republican leadership in the United States Senate chooses to filibuster our recovery and obstruct our progress.  And that has very real consequences. Consider what that obstruction means for our small businesses - the growth engines that create two of every three new jobs in this country.  A lot of small businesses still have trouble getting the loans and capital they need to keep their doors open and hire new workers.  So we proposed steps to get them that help:  Eliminating capital gains taxes on investments.  Establishing a fund for small lenders to help small businesses.  Enhancing successful SBA programs that help them access the capital they need. But again and again, a partisan minority in the Senate said "no," and used procedural tactics to block a simple, up-or-down vote. Think about what these stalling tactics mean for the millions of Americans who've lost their jobs since the recession began.  Over the past several weeks, more than two million of them have seen their unemployment insurance expire.  For many, it was the only way to make ends meet while searching for work - the only way to cover rent, utilities, even food. Three times, the Senate has tried to temporarily extend that emergency assistance.  And three times, a minority of Senators - basically the same crowd who said "no" to small businesses - said "no" to folks looking for work, and blocked a straight up-or-down vote.  Some Republican leaders actually treat this unemployment insurance as if it's a form of welfare. They say it discourages folks from looking for work.  Well, I've met a lot of folks looking for work these past few years, and I can tell you, I haven't met any Americans who would rather have an unemployment check than a meaningful job that lets you provide for your family.  And we all have friends, neighbors, or family members who already knows how hard it is to land a job when five workers are competing for every opening. Now in the past, Presidents and Congresses of both parties have treated unemployment insurance for what it is - an emergency expenditure.  That's because an economic disaster can devastate families and communities just as surely as a flood or tornado.  Suddenly, Republican leaders want to change that.  They say we shouldn't provide unemployment insurance because it costs money.  So after years of championing policies that turned a record surplus into a massive deficit, including a tax cut for the wealthiest Americans, they've finally decided to make their stand on the backs of the unemployed.  They've got no problem spending money on tax breaks for folks at the top who don't need them and didn't even ask for them; but they object to helping folks laid off in this recession who really do need help.  And every day this goes on, another 50,000 Americans lose that badly needed lifeline. Well, I think these Senators are wrong.  We can't afford to go back to the same misguided policies that led us into this mess.  We need to move forward with the policies that are leading us out of this mess. The fact is, most economists agree that extending unemployment insurance is one of the single most cost-effective ways to help jumpstart the economy.  It puts money into the pockets of folks who not only need it most, but who also are most likely to spend it quickly.  That boosts local economies.  And that means jobs. Increasing loans to small business.  Renewing unemployment insurance.  These steps aren't just the right thing to do for those hardest hit by the recession - they're the right thing to do for all of us.  And I'm calling on Congress once more to take these steps on behalf of America's workers, and families, and small business owners - the people we were sent here to serve. Because when storms strike Main Street, we don't play politics with emergency aid.  We don't desert our fellow Americans when they fall on hard times.  We come together.  We do what we can to help.  We rebuild stronger, and we move forward.  That's what we're doing today.  And I'm absolutely convinced that's how we're going to come through this storm to better days ahead.  Thanks.
.  It's reform that will help put a stop to the abusive practices of mortgage lenders and credit card companies.  It will end taxpayer bailouts of Wall Street firms.  And it will finally bring the shadowy deals that caused the financial crisis into the light of day. Wall Street reform is a key pillar of an overall economic plan we've put in place to dig ourselves out of this recession and build an economy for the long run - an economy that makes America more competitive and our middle-class more secure.  It's a plan based on the Main Street values of hard work and responsibility - and one that demands new accountability from Wall Street to Washington.  Instead of giving tax breaks to corporations that ship jobs overseas, we want to give tax breaks to small business owners who are creating jobs right here in America.  Already, we've given small businesses eight new tax cuts, and have expanded lending to more than 60,000 small business owners.   We're also investing in a homegrown, clean energy industry - because I don't want to see new solar panels and wind turbines and electric cars manufactured in some other country.  I want to see them made in America, by American workers.  So far, we've provided new tax credits, loan guarantees, and investments that will lead to more than 800,000 clean energy jobs by 2012.  And throughout America, communities are being rebuilt by people working in hundreds of thousands of new private sector jobs repairing our roads, bridges, and railways. Our economic plan is also aimed at strengthening the middle-class.  That's why we've cut taxes for 95% of working families.  That's why we've offered tax credits that have made college more affordable for millions of students, and why we're making a new commitment to our community colleges.  And that's why we passed health insurance reform that will stop insurance companies from dropping or denying coverage based on an illness or pre-existing condition.    This is our economic plan - smart investments in America's small businesses, America's clean energy industry, and America's middle-class.  Now, I can't tell you that this plan will bring back all the jobs we lost and restore our economy to full strength overnight.  The truth is, it took nearly a decade of failed economic policies to create this mess, and it will take years to fully repair the damage.  But I am confident that we are finally headed in the right direction.  We are moving forward.  And what we can't afford right now is to go back to the same ideas that created this mess in the first place.  Unfortunately, those are the ideas we keep hearing from our friends in the other party.  This week, the Republican leader in the House of Representatives offered his plan to create jobs.  It's a plan that's surprisingly short, and sadly familiar.  First, he would repeal health insurance reform, which would take away tax credits from millions of small business owners, and take us back to the days when insurance companies had free rein to drop coverage and jack up premiums.   Second, he would say no to new investments in clean energy, after his party already voted against the clean energy tax credits and loans that are creating thousands of new jobs and hundreds of new businesses.  And third, even though his party voted against tax cuts for middle-class families, he would permanently keep in place the tax cuts for the very wealthiest Americans - the same tax cuts that have added hundreds of billions to our debt. These are not new ideas.  They are the same policies that led us into this recession.  They will not create jobs, they will kill them.  They will not reduce our deficit, they will add $1 trillion to our deficit.  They will take us backward at a time when we need to keep America moving forward. I know times are tough.  I know that the progress we've made isn't good enough for the millions of Americans who are still out of work or struggling to pay the bills.  But I also know the character of this nation.  I know that in times of great challenge and difficulty, we don't fear the future - we shape the future.  We harness the skills and ingenuity of the most dynamic country on Earth to reach a better day.  We do it with optimism, and we do it with confidence.  That's the spirit we need right now, and that's the future I know we can build together.  Thank you.
.  You do your jobs, take care of your families, pay your bills.  Sometimes, particularly in tough times like these, you have to make hard choices about where to spend and where to save.  That's what being responsible means.  That's a bedrock value of our country.  And that ought to be a value that our government lives up to as well.  Yet, over the past decade, this hasn't always not been the case.  Ten years ago, we had a big budget surplus with projected surpluses far into the future.  Ten years later, those surpluses are gone.  In fact, when I first walked through the door, the government's budget deficit stood at $1.3 trillion, with the budget gap over the next decade projected to be $8 trillion.  Partly, the recession is to blame.  With millions of people out of work, and millions of families facing hardship, folks are paying less in taxes while seeking more services, like unemployment benefits.  Rising health care costs are also to blame.  Each year, more and more tax dollars are devoted to Medicare and Medicaid.  But what also made these large deficits possible was the end of a common sense rule called "pay as you go."  It's pretty simple.  It says to Congress, you have to pay as you go.  You can't spend a dollar unless you cut a dollar elsewhere.  This is how a responsible family or business manages a budget.  And this is how a responsible government manages a budget, as well.  It was this rule that helped lead to balanced budgets in the 1990s, by making clear that we could not increase entitlement spending or cut taxes simply by borrowing more money.  And it was the abandonment of this rule that allowed the previous administration and previous congresses to pass massive tax cuts for the wealthy and create an expensive new drug program without paying for any of it.  Now in a perfect world, Congress would not have needed a law to act responsibly, to remember that every dollar spent would come from taxpayers today - or our children tomorrow.  But this isn't a perfect world.  This is Washington.  And while in theory there is bipartisan agreement on moving on balanced budgets, in practice, this responsibility for the future is often overwhelmed by the politics of the moment.  It falls prey to the pressure of special interests, to the pull of local concerns, and to a reality familiar to every single American - the fact that it is a lot easier to spend a dollar than save one.  That is why this rule is necessary.  And that is why I am pleased that Congress fulfilled my request to restore it.  Last night, I signed the "pay as you go" rule into law.  Now, Congress will have to pay for what it spends, just like everybody else. But that's not all we must do.  Even as we make critical investments to create jobs today and lay a foundation for growth tomorrow - by cutting taxes for small businesses, investing in education, promoting clean energy, and modernizing our roads and railways - we have to continue to go through the budget line by line, looking for ways to save.  We have to cut where we can, to afford what we need.  This year, I've proposed another $20 billion in budget cuts. And I've also called for a freeze in government spending for three years.  It won't affect benefits through Medicare, Medicaid, or Social Security.  And it will not affect national security - including benefits for veterans.  But it will affect the rest of the budget.  Finally, I've proposed a bipartisan Fiscal Commission to provide recommendations for long-term deficit reduction.  Because in the end, solving our fiscal challenge - so many years in the making - will take both parties coming together, putting politics aside, and making some hard choices about what we need to spend, and what we don't.  It will not happen any other way.  Unfortunately this proposal - which received the support of a bipartisan majority in the Senate - was recently blocked.  So, I will be creating this commission by executive order.  After a decade of profligacy, the American people are tired of politicians who talk the talk but don't walk the walk when it comes to fiscal responsibility.  It's easy to get up in front of the cameras and rant against exploding deficits.  What's hard is actually getting deficits under control.  But that's what we must do.  Like families across the country, we have to take responsibility for every dollar we spend.  And with the return of "pay as you go," as well as other steps we've begun to take, that is exactly what we are doing. Thanks.
. The news inside was jaw-dropping. Anthem was alerting almost a million of its customers that it would be raising premiums by an average of 25 percent, with about a quarter of folks likely to see their rates go up by anywhere from 35 to 39 percent. Now, after their announcement stirred public outcry, Anthem agreed to delay their rate hike until May 1st while the situation is reviewed by the state of California. But it's not just Californians who are being hit by rate hikes. In Kansas, one insurance company raised premiums by 10 to 20 percent only after asking to raise them by 20 to 30 percent. Last year, Michigan Blue Cross Blue Shield raised rates by 22 percent after asking to raise them by up to 56 percent. And in Maine, Anthem is asking to raise rates for some folks by about 23 percent. The bottom line is that the status quo is good for the insurance industry and bad for America. Over the past year, as families and small business owners have struggled to pay soaring health care costs, and as millions of Americans lost their coverage, the five largest insurers made record profits of over $12 billion. And as bad as things are today, they'll only get worse if we fail to act. We'll see more and more Americans go without the coverage they need. We'll see exploding premiums and out-of-pocket costs burn through more and more family budgets. We'll see more and more small businesses scale back benefits, drop coverage, or close down because they can't keep up with rising rates. And in time, we'll see these skyrocketing health care costs become the single largest driver of our federal deficits. That's what the future is on track to look like. But it's not what the future has to look like. The question, then, is whether we will do what it takes, all of us - Democrats and Republicans - to build a better future for ourselves, our children, and our country. That's why, next week, I am inviting members of both parties to take part in a bipartisan health care meeting, and I hope they come in a spirit of good faith. I don't want to see this meeting turn into political theater, with each side simply reciting talking points and trying to score political points. Instead, I ask members of both parties to seek common ground in an effort to solve a problem that's been with us for generations. It's in that spirit that I have sought out and supported Republican ideas on reform from the very beginning. Some Republicans want to allow Americans to purchase insurance from a company in another state to give people more choices and bring down costs. Some Republicans have also suggested giving small businesses the power to pool together and offer health care at lower prices, just as big companies and labor unions do. I think both of these are good ideas - so long as we pursue them in a way that protects benefits, protects patients, and protects the American people. I hope Democrats and Republicans can come together next week around these and other ideas. To members of Congress, I would simply say this. We know the American people want us to reform our health insurance system. We know where the broad areas of agreement are. And we know where the sources of disagreement lie. After debating this issue exhaustively for a year, let's move forward together. Next week is our chance to finally reform our health insurance system so it works for families and small businesses. It's our chance to finally give Americans the peace of mind of knowing that they'll be able to have affordable coverage when they need it most. What's being tested here is not just our ability to solve this one problem, but our ability to solve any problem. Right now, Americans are understandably despairing about whether partisanship and the undue influence of special interests in Washington will make it impossible for us to deal with the big challenges that face our country. They want to see us focus not on scoring points, but on solving problems; not on the next election but on the next generation. That is what we can do, and that is what we must do when we come together for this bipartisan health care meeting next week. Thank you, and have a great weekend.
.  And I especially want to say how proud I am of all the American men and women have achieved over the last few weeks.  Whether it was the men's hockey team's stunning upset of the Canadians on their way to the gold-medal game, Lindsey Vonn's heroic gold-medal comeback from a shin injury, or Apolo Ohno becoming the most decorated American winter Olympian of all time, you can't help but be inspired by the sheer grit and athletic prowess on display in Vancouver. And it's not just the medal count that's inspiring - though we've certainly done great on that score.  What's truly inspiring is the character of the men and women who have won those medals.  The sacrifices they've made.  The integrity they've shown.  The indomitable Olympic spirit that says no matter who you are or where you come from or what difficulties you may face, you can work hard and train hard and still triumph in the end.  That is why we watch.  That is why we cheer.  That is why in the middle of an extremely challenging time for America, we've been able to come together as one nation for a few weeks in February and swell with pride at what our citizens have achieved.  Now, when it comes to meeting the larger challenges we face as a nation, I realize that finding this unity is easier said than done - especially in Washington.  But if we want to compete on the world stage as well as we've competed in the world's games, we need to find common ground.  We need to move past the bickering and the game-playing that holds us back and blocks progress for the American people.  We know it's possible to do this.  And we were reminded of that last week when Democrats and Republicans in the Senate came together to pass a jobs bill that will give small businesses tax credits to hire more workers.  We also saw it when Democrats and Republicans in the House came together to pass a bill that will force insurance companies to abide by common-sense rules that prevent price-fixing and other practices that drive up health care costs.  We need that same spirit of cooperation and bipartisanship when it comes to finally passing reform that will bring down the cost of health care and give Americans more control over their insurance.  On Thursday, we brought both parties together for a frank and productive discussion about this issue.  In that discussion, we heard many areas of agreement.  Both sides agreed that the rising cost of health care is a serious problem that plagues families, small businesses, and our federal budget.  Many on both sides agreed that we should give small businesses and individuals the ability to participate in a new insurance marketplace - which members of Congress would also use - that would allow them to pool their purchasing power and get a better deal from insurance companies.  And I heard some ideas from our Republican friends that I believe are very worthy of consideration.  But still, there were differences.  We disagreed over whether insurance companies should be held accountable when they deny people care or arbitrarily raise premiums.  I believe they should.  We disagreed over giving tax credits to small businesses and individuals that would make health care affordable for those who don't have it.  This would be the largest middle class tax cut for health care in history, and I believe we should do it.  And while we agreed that Americans with pre-existing conditions should be able to get coverage, we disagreed on how to do that.  Some of these disagreements we may be able to resolve.  Some we may not.  And no final bill will include everything that everyone wants.  That's what compromise is.  I said at the end of Thursday's summit that I am eager and willing to move forward with members of both parties on health care if the other side is serious about coming together to resolve our differences and get this done.  But I also believe that we cannot lose the opportunity to meet this challenge.  The tens of millions of men and women who cannot afford their health insurance cannot wait another generation for us to act.  Small businesses cannot wait.  Americans with pre-existing conditions cannot wait.  State and federal budgets cannot sustain these rising costs.  It is time for us to come together.  It is time for us to act.  It is time for those of us in Washington to live up to our responsibilities to the American people and to future generations.  So let's get this done.  Thanks for listening.
.  This comes after nearly a year of debate, as well as a seven hour summit with Democrats and Republicans where we had a public and substantive discussion on health care.  Since then, I've said that I'm willing to incorporate some ideas offered by Republicans, and we're eliminating special provisions that had no place in health care reform. Now, despite all the progress and improvements we've made, Republicans in Congress insist that the only acceptable course on health care is to start over.  But you know what?  The insurance companies aren't starting over.  I just met with some of them on Thursday and they couldn't give me a straight answer as to why they keep arbitrarily and massively raising premiums - by as much as 60% in states like Illinois.  If we do not act, they will continue to do this.  They will continue to drop people's coverage when they need it.  They will continue to refuse coverage based on pre-existing conditions.  These practices will continue.  That's why we must act now.  That's why the United States Congress owes the American people an up-or-down vote on health insurance reform.  The proposal we've put forward would end the worst practices of the insurance industry, lower costs for millions of Americans, and give uninsured individuals and small businesses the same kind of choice of private health insurance that Members of Congress get for themselves.  And while it will take a few years to fully implement these reforms, there are numerous protections and benefits that would start to take effect this year.  This year, small business owners will receive tax credits to purchase health insurance. This year, thousands of uninsured Americans with pre-existing conditions will finally be able to purchase coverage.  Insurance companies will no longer be allowed to deny coverage to children with pre-existing conditions.  And they will no longer be allowed to drop your coverage when you get sick.         This year, all new insurance plans will be required to offer free preventive care to their customers - so that we can start catching preventable illnesses and diseases on the front end.  There will no longer be lifetime limits or restrictive annual limits on the amount of care you receive.  Young adults will be able to stay on their parents' insurance policy until they're 26 years old.  And there will be a new, independent appeals process for anyone who feels they were unfairly denied a claim by their insurance company.  Finally, seniors who fall into the gap in coverage known as the donut hole will receive $250 to help them pay for their prescriptions.   What won't change when this bill is signed this:  if you like the insurance plan you have now, you can keep it.  If you like your doctor, you can keep your doctor.  Because nothing should get in the way of the relationship between a family and their doctor.   If we act now, all of this will happen this year.  Millions of lives will improve.  Some will be saved.  Many families and small business owners will have health insurance for the very first time in their lives.  Doctors and patients will have more control over their health care decisions, and insurance company bureaucrats will have less.  This future is within our grasp.   But we also know what the future will look like if we don't act - if we let this opportunity pass for another year, or another decade, or another generation.   More Americans will lose their family's health insurance if they switch jobs or lose their job.  More small businesses will be forced to choose between health care and hiring.  More insurance companies will raise premiums and deny coverage.  And the rising cost of Medicare and Medicaid will sink our government deeper and deeper into debt. I don't accept that future for the United States of America.  I know it has been a long and hard road to this point.  And we are not finished with our journey just yet.  But we are close.  We are very close.  And so I ask Congress to finish its work.  I ask them to give the American people an up or down vote.  And let's show our citizens that it's still possible for Washington to look out for their interests and their future.  Thanks for listening.
.  It said, "Many Nations Passing U.S. in Education."   Now, debates in Washington tend to be consumed with the politics of the moment: who's up in the daily polls; whose party stands to gain in November.  But what matters to you - what matters to our country - is not what happens in the next election, but what we do to lift up the next generation.  And the fact is, there are few issues that speak more directly to our long term success as a nation than issues concerning the education we provide to our children.  Our prosperity in the 20th century was fueled by an education system that helped grow the middle class and unleash the talents of our people more fully and widely than at any time in our history.  We built schools and focused on the teaching of math and science.  We helped a generation of veterans go to college through the GI Bill.  We led the globe in producing college graduates, and in turn we led in producing ground-breaking technologies and scientific discoveries that lifted living standards and set us apart as the world's engine of innovation.  Of course, other nations recognize this, and are looking to gain an edge in the global marketplace by investing in better schools, supporting teachers, and committing to clear standards that will produce graduates with more skills.  Our competitors understand that the nation that out-educates us today will out-compete us tomorrow.  Yet, too often we have failed to make inroads in reforming and strengthening our public education system - the debate mired in worn arguments hurled across entrenched divides.  As a result, over the last few decades, we've lost ground.  One assessment shows American fifteen year olds no longer even near the top in math and science when compared to their peers around the world.  As referenced in the news report I mentioned, we've now fallen behind most wealthy countries in our high school graduation rates.  And while we once led the world in the proportion of college graduates we produced, today we no longer do.  Not only does that risk our leadership as a nation, it consigns millions of Americans to a lesser future.  For we know that the level of education a person attains is increasingly a prerequisite for success and a predictor of the income that person will earn throughout his or her life.  Beyond the economic statistics is a less tangible but no less painful reality: unless we take action - unless we step up - there are countless children who will never realize their full talent and potential.  I don't accept that future for them.  And I don't accept that future for the United States of America.  That's why we're engaged in a historic effort to redeem and improve  our public  schools: to raise the expectations for our students and for ourselves, to recognize and reward excellence, to improve performance in troubled schools, and to give our kids and our country the best chance to succeed in a changing world. Under the leadership of an outstanding Education Secretary, Arne Duncan, we launched a Race to the Top, through which states compete for funding by committing to reform and raising standards, by rewarding good teaching, by supporting the development of better assessments to measure results, and by emphasizing math and science to help prepare children for college and careers.  And on Monday, my administration will send to Congress our blueprint for an updated Elementary and Secondary Education Act to overhaul No Child Left Behind.  What this plan recognizes is that while the federal government can play a leading role in encouraging the reforms and high standards we need, the impetus for that change will come from states, and from local schools and school districts.  So, yes, we set a high bar - but we also provide educators the flexibility to reach it.  Under these guidelines, schools that achieve excellence or show real progress will be rewarded, and local districts will be encouraged to commit to change in schools that are clearly letting their students down.  For the majority of schools that fall in between - schools that do well but could do better - we will encourage continuous improvement to help keep our young people on track for a bright future: prepared for the jobs of the 21st century. And because the most important factor in a child's success is the person standing at the front of the classroom, we will better prepare teachers, support teachers, and encourage teachers to stay in the field.  In short, we'll treat the people who educate our sons and daughters like the professionals they are. Through this plan we are setting an ambitious goal: all students should graduate from high school prepared for college and a career - no matter who you are or where you come from.  Achieving this goal will be difficult. It will take time.  And it will require the skills, talents, and dedication of many: principals, teachers, parents, students.  But this effort is essential for our children and for our country.  And while there will always be those cynics who claim it can't be done, at our best, we know that America has always risen to the challenges that we've faced.  This challenge is no different.  As a nation, we are engaged in many important endeavors: improving the economy, reforming the health care system, encouraging innovation in energy and other growth industries of the 21st century.  But our success in these efforts - and our success in the future as a people - will ultimately depend on what happens long before an entrepreneur opens his doors, or a nurse walks the rounds, or a scientist steps into her laboratory.  Our future is determined each and every day, when our children enter the classroom, ready to learn and brimming with promise.  It's that promise we must help them fulfill.  Thank you.
.  These reforms are essential.  As I've urged over the past year, we need common-sense rules that will our allow markets to function fairly and freely while reining in the worst practices of the financial industry.  That's the central lesson of this crisis.  And we fail to heed that lesson at our peril. Of course, there were many causes of the economic turmoil that ripped through our country over the past two years.  But it was a crisis that began in our financial system.  Large banks engaged in reckless financial speculation without regard for the consequences - and without tough oversight.  Financial firms invented and sold complicated financial products to escape scrutiny and conceal enormous risks.  And there were some who engaged in the rampant exploitation of consumers to turn a quick profit no matter who was hurt in the process.  Now, I have long been a vigorous defender of free markets.  And I believe we need a strong and vibrant financial sector so that businesses can get loans; families can afford mortgages; entrepreneurs can find the capital to start a new company, sell a new product, offer a new service.  But what we have seen over the past two years is that without reasonable and clear rules to check abuse and protect families, markets don't function freely.  In fact, it was just the opposite.  In the absence of such rules, our financial markets spun out of control, credit markets froze, and our economy nearly plummeted into a second Great Depression. That's why financial reform is so necessary.  And after months of bipartisan work, Senator Chris Dodd and his committee have offered a strong foundation for reform, in line with the proposal I previously laid out, and in line with the reform bill passed by the House.  It would provide greater scrutiny of large financial firms to prevent any one company from threatening the entire financial system - and it would update the rules so that complicated financial products like derivatives are no longer bought and sold without oversight.  It would prevent banks from engaging in risky dealings through their own hedge funds - while finally giving shareholders a say on executive salaries and bonuses.  And through new tools to break up failing financial firms, it would help ensure that taxpayers are never again forced to bail out a big bank because it is "too big to fail." Finally, these reforms include a new Consumer Financial Protection Agency to prevent predatory loan practices and other abuses to ensure that consumers get clear information about loans and other financial products before they sign on the dotted line.  Because this financial crisis wasn't just the result of decisions made by large financial firms; it was also the result of decisions made by ordinary Americans to open credit cards and take on mortgages.  And while there were many who took out loans they knew they couldn't afford, there were also millions of people who signed contracts they didn't fully understand offered by lenders who didn't always tell the truth. This is in part because the job of protecting consumers is spread across seven different federal agencies, none of which has the interests of ordinary Americans as its principal concern.  This diffusion of responsibility has made it easier for credit card companies to lure customers with attractive offers then punish them in the fine print; for payday lenders and others who charge outrageous interest to operate without much oversight; and for mortgage brokers to entice homebuyers with low initial rates only to trap them with ballooning payments down the line.  For these banking reforms to be complete - for these reforms to meet the measure of the crisis we've just been through - we need a consumer agency to advocate for ordinary Americans and help enforce the rules that protect them.  That's why I won't accept any attempts to undermine the independence of this agency.  And I won't accept efforts to create loopholes for the most egregious abusers of consumers, from payday lenders to auto finance companies to credit card companies.  Unsurprisingly, this proposal has been a source of contention with financial firms who like things just the way they are.  In fact, the Republican leader in the House reportedly met with a top executive of one of America's largest banks and made thwarting reform a key part of his party's pitch for campaign contributions.  And this week, the allies of banks and consumer finance companies launched a multimillion dollar ad campaign to fight against the proposal.  You might call this 'air support' for the army of lobbyists already arm twisting members of the committee to reject these reforms and block this consumer agency.  Perhaps that's why, after months of working with Democrats, Republicans walked away from this proposal.  I regret that and urge them to reconsider. The fact is, it's now been well over a year since the near collapse of the entire financial system - a crisis that helped wipe out more than 8 million jobs and that continues to exact a terrible toll throughout our economy.  Yet today the very same system that allowed this turmoil remains in place.  No one disputes that.  No one denies that reform is needed.  So the question we have to answer is very simple: will we learn from this crisis, or will we condemn ourselves to repeat it?  That's what's at stake. I urge those in the Senate who support these reforms to remain strong, to resist the pressure from those who would preserve the status quo, to stand up for their constituents and our country.   And I promise to use every tool at my disposal to see these reforms enacted: to ensure that the bill I sign into law reflects not the special interests of Wall Street, but the best interests of the American people. Thank you.
.  It was a week in which together, we took bold new steps toward restoring economic security for our middle class and rebuilding a stronger foundation for our future.  It was a week in which some of the change that generations have hoped for and worked for finally became reality in America. It began with the passage of comprehensive health insurance reform that will begin to end the worst practices of the insurance industry, rein in our exploding deficits, and, over time, finally offer millions of families and small businesses quality, affordable care - and the security and peace of mind that comes with it. And it ended with Congress casting a final vote on another piece of legislation that accomplished what we've been talking about for decades - legislation that will reform our student loan system and help us educate all Americans to compete and win in the 21st century. Year after year, we've seen billions of taxpayer dollars handed out as subsidies to the bankers and middlemen who handle federal student loans, when that money should have gone to advancing the dreams of our students and working families.  And yet attempts to fix this problem and reform this program were thwarted by special interests that fought tooth and nail to preserve their exclusive giveaway. But this time, we said, would be different.  We said we'd stand up to the special interests, and stand up for the interests of students and families.   That's what happened this week.  And I commend all the Senators and Representatives who did the right thing. This reform of the federal student loan programs will save taxpayers $68 billion over the next decade.  And with this legislation, we're putting that money to use achieving a goal I set for America: by the end of this decade, we will once again have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world. To make college more affordable for millions of middle-class Americans for whom the cost of higher education has become an unbearable burden, we're expanding federal Pell Grants for students: increasing them to keep pace with inflation in the coming years and putting the program on a stronger financial footing.  In total, we're doubling funding for the federal Pell Grant program to help the students who depend on it.  To make sure our students don't go broke just because they chose to go to college, we're making it easier for graduates to afford their student loan payments.  Today, about 2 in 3 graduates take out loans to pay for college.  The average student ends up with more than $23,000 in debt.  So when this change takes effect in 2014, we'll cap a graduate's annual student loan repayments at 10 percent of his or her income. To help an additional 5 million Americans earn degrees and certificates over the next decade, we're revitalizing programming at our community colleges - the career pathways for millions of dislocated workers and working families across this country.  These schools are centers of learning; where students young and old can get the skills and technical training they need for the jobs of today and tomorrow.  They're centers of opportunity; where we can forge partnerships between students and businesses so that every community can gain the workforce it needs.  And they are vital to our economic future. And to ensure that all our students have every chance to live up to their full potential, this legislation also increases support for our Minority Serving Institutions, including our Historically Black Colleges and Universities, to keep them as strong as ever in this new century. Education.  Health care.  Two of the most important pillars of a strong America grew stronger this week.  These achievements don't represent the end of our challenges; nor do they signify the end of the work that faces our country.  But what they do represent is real and major reform.  What they show is that we're a nation still capable of doing big things.  What they prove is what's possible when we can come together to overcome the politics of the moment; push back on the special interests; and look beyond the next election to do what's right for the next generation. That's the spirit in which we continue the work of tackling our greatest common tasks - an economy rebuilt; job creation revitalized; an American Dream renewed - for all our people. Thank you.
. On Monday and Tuesday nights, Jewish families and friends in the United States and around the world gathered for a Seder to commemorate the Exodus from Egypt and the triumph of hope and perseverance over injustice and oppression.  On Sunday, my family will join other Christians all over the world in marking the resurrection of Jesus Christ. And while we worship in different ways, we also remember the shared spirit of humanity that inhabits us all - Jews and Christians, Muslims and Hindus, believers and nonbelievers alike. Amid the storm of public debate, with our 24/7 media cycle, in a town like Washington that's consumed with the day-to-day, it can sometimes be easy to lose sight of the eternal. So, on this Easter weekend, let us hold fast to those aspirations we hold in common as brothers and sisters, as members of the same family - the family of man. All of us know how important work is - not just for the paycheck, but for the peace of mind that comes with knowing you can provide for your family. As Americans, and as human beings, we seek not only the security, but the sense of dignity, the sense of community, that work confers. That is why it was heartening news that last month, for the first time in more than two years, our economy created a substantial number of jobs, instead of losing them. We have begun to reverse the devastating slide, but we have a long way to go to repair the damage from this recession, and that will continue to be my focus every single day. All of us value our health and the health of our loved ones. All of us have experienced an illness, a loss, a personal tragedy. All of us know that no matter what we're doing or what else is going on in our lives, if the health of someone we love is endangered, nothing else matters. Our health is the rock upon which our lives are built, for better and for worse. All of us value education. We know that in an economy as competitive as ours, an education is a prerequisite for success. But we also know that ultimately, education is about something more, something greater. It is about the ability that lies within each of us to rise above any barrier, no matter how high; to pursue any dream, no matter how big; to fulfill our God-given potential. All of us are striving to make a way in this world; to build a purposeful and fulfilling life in the fleeting time we have here. A dignified life. A healthy life. A life, true to its potential. And a life that serves others. These are aspirations that stretch back through the ages - aspirations at the heart of Judaism, at the heart of Christianity, at the heart of all of the world's great religions.  The rites of Passover, and the traditions of Easter, have been marked by people in every corner of the planet for thousands of years. They have been marked in times of peace, in times of upheaval, in times of war. One such war-time service was held on the black sands of Iwo Jima more than sixty years ago. There, in the wake of some of the fiercest fighting of World War II, a chaplain rose to deliver an Easter sermon, consecrating the memory, he said "of American dead - Catholic, Protestant, Jew. Together," he said, "they huddled in foxholes or crouched in the bloody sands...Together they practiced virtue, patriotism, love of country, love of you and of me." The chaplain continued, "The heritage they have left us, the vision of a new world, [was] made possible by the common bond that united them...their only hope that this unity will endure." Their only hope that this unity will endure. On this weekend, as Easter begins and Passover comes to a close, let us remain ever mindful of the unity of purpose, the common bond, the love of you and of me, for which they sacrificed all they had; and for which so many others have sacrificed so much. And let us make its pursuit - and fulfillment - our highest aspiration, as individuals and as a nation. Happy Easter and Happy Passover to all those celebrating, here in America, and around the world.
.  They work hard.  They support their families.  They try to make an honest living the best they can. And this weekend, many are sitting down to pay the taxes they owe - not because it's fun, but because it's a fundamental responsibility of our citizenship. But in tough times, when many families are having trouble just making it all work, Tax Day can seem even more daunting. This year, however, many Americans are seeing some welcome relief. So far, Americans who have filed their taxes have discovered that the average refund is up nearly ten percent this year - to an all-time high of about $3,000.  This is due in large part to the Recovery Act.  In fact, one-third of the Recovery Act was made up of tax cuts - tax cuts that have already provided more than $160 billion in relief for families and businesses, and nearly $100 billion of that directly into the pockets of working Americans. No one I've met is looking for a handout.  And that's not what these tax cuts are.  Instead, they're targeted relief to help middle class families weather the storm, to jumpstart our economy, and to bring the fundamentals of the American Dream - making an honest living, earning an education, owning a home, and raising a family - back within reach for millions of Americans. First, because folks who work hard should be able to make a decent living, I kept a promise I made when I campaigned for this office and cut taxes for 95 percent of working Americans.  For most Americans, this Making Work Pay tax credit began showing up in your paychecks last April. And it continues this year, for a total of $400 per individual and $800 per couple, per year. Second, because a college education is critical to the success of our workers and our economy, we're helping to make it more affordable for millions of Americans.  Millions of students and parents paying for college tuition are now eligible for up to $2,500 under the American Opportunity Credit.  Along with a host of other steps we've taken, this will help us reach our goal of once again having the highest proportion of college graduates in the world by 2020.  Third, we're restoring the home as a source of stability and an anchor of the American Dream.  If you've bought a home for the first time, you're eligible for a credit of up to $8,000.  And if you bought a new car last year, you can deduct the state and local sales taxes you paid on that car. Fourth, whether you bought a home for the first time or you've owned one for a long time, if you invested in making your home more energy-efficient with certain improvements like new insulation or windows, or plan to this year, you're eligible for up to $1,500 in new tax credits.  This does more than just put money back in your pocket; it's helping create new clean energy, manufacturing, and construction jobs at small businesses across the country. Fifth, to help working families with children through difficult times, we increased the Earned Income Tax Credit and allowed more families to qualify for the Child Tax Credit. Finally, for those who lost their jobs in the recession and need some help getting back on their feet, we provided a 65 percent tax credit to help cover the cost of health care and made sure the first $2,400 in unemployment benefits is tax-free. These are among the tax breaks and savings that are available to over one hundred million Americans right now.  It's also important to note that the new health reform law includes the largest middle class tax cut for health care in history, and once it's implemented; millions of Americans will finally be able to purchase quality, affordable care and the security and peace of mind that comes with it.  And one thing we have not done is raise income taxes on families making less than $250,000.  That's another promise we've kept. We've also made it easy to find out what's owed to you and your family.  After all, the big guys know how to find their tax breaks; it's time you did, too.   Just visit WhiteHouse.gov and click on the Tax Savings Tool.  It's already been accessed more than 100,000 times by folks who want to see what savings they're owed and how to collect them.  If you've already filed your taxes and missed some of the savings available to you, don't worry - you can still amend your returns after April 15th to save hundreds or even thousands of dollars. And just as each of us meets our responsibilities as citizens, we expect our businesses and our government to meet theirs in return.  That's why I've asked Congress to close some of the biggest tax loopholes exploited by some of our most profitable corporations to avoid paying their fair share - or, in some cases, paying taxes at all.  That's why we're tightening Washington's belt by cutting programs that don't work, contracts that aren't fair, and spending we don't need.  And that's why I've proposed a freeze on discretionary spending, signed a law that restores the pay-as-you-go principle that helped produce the surpluses of the 1990s, and created a bipartisan, independent commission to help solve our fiscal crisis and close the deficits that have been growing for a decade.  Because I refuse to leave our problems to the next generation. It's been a tough couple years for America.  But the economy is growing again.  Companies are beginning to hire again.  We are rewarding work and helping more of our people reach for the American Dream again.  And while there's no doubt we still face a long journey together, with more steps to take, more obstacles to overcome, and more challenges to face along the way; if there is one thing of which the people of this great country have convinced me, it's that the United States of America will recover, stronger than before. Thanks for listening, and have a great weekend.   RECOVERY ACT TAX RELIEF  Major Tax Benefits Taxpayers can collect on more than a dozen 2009 Recovery Act tax benefits when they file their 2009 tax returns, including:  Making Work Pay  - Ninety-five percent of working families are receiving the Recovery Act's Making Work Pay tax credit of $400 for an individual or $800 for married couples filing jointly in their paychecks in 2009 - and will continue to in 2010.   Up to $2,500 in College Expenses  - Families and students are eligible for up to $2,500 in tax savings under the  American Opportunity Credit  as well as enhanced benefits under  529 college savings plans , which help families and students pay for college expenses.  Up to $8,000 for Purchase of First Home  - Homebuyers can get a credit of up to $8,000 for first homes purchased by April 30, 2010 under the  First Time Homebuyer tax credit .  Long-time residents who don't qualify as first-time homebuyers and those with incomes of up to $145,000 for an individual and $245,000 for joint filers are also eligible for a reduced credit.  Up to $1,500 in Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Incentives  - Taxpayers are eligible for up to $1,500 in tax credits for making some  energy-efficiency improvements  to their homes such as adding insulation and installing energy efficient windows.  Money Back for New Vehicle Purchases  - Taxpayers can deduct the state and local sales taxes they paid for new vehicles purchased from Feb. 17, 2009 through Dec. 31, 2009 under the  vehicle sales tax deduction .  In states that don't have a sales tax, some  other taxes or fees paid  may be deducted.  Expanded Family Tax Credits  - Moderate income families with children may be eligible for an increase in the  Earned Income Tax Credit  and the additional  Child Tax Credit .  Up to $2,400 in Unemployment Benefits Tax Free in 2009  - Unemployment benefits are normally taxable, but the Recovery Act made the first $2,400 of unemployment benefits received in 2009 tax free.
.  But this summer, they're also seeing a flood of attack ads run by shadowy groups with harmless-sounding names.  We don't know who's behind these ads and we don't know who's paying for them.    The reason this is happening is because of a decision by the Supreme Court in the Citizens United case - a decision that now allows big corporations to spend unlimited amounts of money to influence our elections.  They can buy millions of dollars worth of TV ads - and worst of all, they don't even have to reveal who is actually paying for them.  You don't know if it's a foreign-controlled corporation.  You don't know if it's BP.  You don't know if it's a big insurance company or a Wall Street Bank.  A group can hide behind a phony name like "Citizens for a Better Future," even if a more accurate name would be "Corporations for Weaker Oversight."  We tried to fix this last month.  There was a proposal supported by Democrats and Republicans that would've required corporate political advertisers to reveal who's funding their activities.  When special interests take to the airwaves, whoever is running and funding the ad would have to appear in the advertisement and take responsibility for it - like a company's CEO or an organization's biggest contributor.  And foreign-controlled corporations and entities would be restricted from spending money to influence American elections - just as they were in the past.  You would think that making these reforms would be a matter of common sense.  You'd think that reducing corporate and even foreign influence over our elections wouldn't be a partisan issue.  But the Republican leaders in Congress said no.  In fact, they used their power to block the issue from even coming up for a vote.  This can only mean that the leaders of the other party want to keep the public in the dark.  They don't want you to know which interests are paying for the ads.  The only people who don't want to disclose the truth are people with something to hide. Well, we cannot allow the corporate takeover of our democracy.  So we're going to continue to fight for reform and transparency.  And I urge all of you to take up the same fight.  Let's challenge every elected official who benefits from these ads to defend this practice or join us in stopping it.  At a time of such challenge for America, we can't afford these political games.  Millions of Americans are struggling to get by, and their voices shouldn't be drowned out by millions of dollars in secret, special interest advertising.  Their voices should be heard.  Let's not forget that a century ago, it was a Republican President - Teddy Roosevelt - who first tried to tackle the issue of corporate influence on our elections.  He actually called it "one of the principal sources of corruption in our political affairs."  And he proposed strict limits on corporate influence in elections.  "Every special interest is entitled to justice," he said.  "but not one is entitled to a vote in Congress, to a voice on the bench, or to representation in any public office." We now face a similar challenge, and a similar opportunity to prevent special interests from gaining even more clout in Washington.  This shouldn't be a Democratic issue or a Republican issue.  This is an issue that goes to whether or not we will have a democracy that works for ordinary Americans - a government of, by, and for the people.  Let's show the cynics and the special interests that we still can.
. As a candidate for this office, I pledged I would end this war.  As President, that is what I am doing.  We have brought home more than 90,000 troops since I took office.  We have closed or turned over to Iraq hundreds of bases.  In many parts of the country, Iraqis have already taken the lead for security. In the months ahead, our troops will continue to support and train Iraqi forces, partner with Iraqis in counterterrorism missions, and protect our civilian and military efforts.  But the bottom line is this: the war is ending.  Like any sovereign, independent nation, Iraq is free to chart its own course.  And by the end of next year, all of our troops will be home. As we mark the end of America's combat mission in Iraq, a grateful nation must pay tribute to all who have served there.  Because part of responsibly ending this war is meeting our responsibility to those who have fought it. The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan now make up America's longest continuous combat engagement.  For the better part of a decade, our troops and their families have served tour after tour with honor and heroism, risking and often giving their lives for the defense of our freedom and security.  More than one million Americans in uniform have served in Iraq - far more than any conflict since Vietnam.  And more than one million who have served in both wars have now finished their service and joined the proud ranks of America's veterans. What this new generation of veterans must know is this: our nation's commitment to all who wear its uniform is a sacred trust that is as old as our republic itself.  It is one that, as President, I consider a moral obligation to uphold. At the same time, these are new wars; with new missions, new methods, and new perils.  And what today's veterans have earned - what they have every right to expect - is new care, new opportunity, and a new commitment to their service when they come home. That's why, from the earliest days of my Administration, we've been strengthening that sacred trust with our veterans by making our veterans policy more responsive and ready for this new century. We're building a 21st century VA, modernizing and expanding VA hospitals and health care, and adapting care to better meet the unique needs of female veterans.  We're creating a single electronic health record that our troops and veterans can keep for life.  We're breaking the claims backlog and reforming the process with new paperless systems.  And we are building new wounded warrior facilities through the Department of Defense But for many of our troops and their families, the war doesn't end when they come home.  Too many suffer from Traumatic Brain Injury and Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder - the signature injuries of today's wars - and too few receive proper screening or care.  We're changing that.  We're directing significant resources to treatment, hiring more mental health professionals, and making major investments in awareness, outreach, and suicide prevention.  And we're making it easier for a vet with PTSD to get the benefits he or she needs. To make sure our troops, veterans, and their families have full access to the American Dream they've fought to defend, we're working to extend them new opportunity.  Michelle and Jill Biden have forged a national commitment to support military families while a loved one is away.  We've guaranteed new support to caregivers who put their lives on hold for a loved one's long recovery.  We're funding and implementing the Post-9/11 GI Bill, which is already helping some 300,000 veterans and their family members pursue their dream of a college education. And for veterans trying to find work in a very tough economy, we've devoted new resources to job training and placement. I've directed the federal government to hire more veterans, including disabled veterans, and I encourage every business in America to follow suit. This new generation of veterans has proven itself to be a new generation of leaders.  They have unmatched training and skills; they're ready to work; and our country is stronger when we tap their extraordinary talents. New care.  New opportunity.  A new commitment to our veterans. If you'd like to send our troops and veterans a message of thanks and support, just visit whitehouse.gov.  There, you'll find an easy way to upload your own text or video. Let them know that they have the respect and support of a grateful nation.  That when their tour ends; when they see our flag; when they touch our soil; they'll always be home in an America that is forever here for them - just as they've been there for us.  That is the promise our nation makes to those who serve.  And as long as I'm Commander-in-Chief, it's a promise we'll keep.  Thank you.
.  But if you're one of the millions of Americans who lost your home, your job, or your savings as a consequence of the recession, this news is of little comfort or value. Yes, the economy is growing instead of shrinking, as it was in 2008 and the beginning of 2009.  We're gaining private sector jobs each month instead of losing 800,000, as we did the month I took office. But we have to keep pushing to promote growth that will generate the jobs we need, and repair the terrible damage the recession has done.  That's why I've proposed a series of additional steps: accelerated tax breaks for businesses who buy equipment now; a permanent research and development tax break to promote innovation by American companies; and a new initiative to rebuild America's roads, rails, and runways that will put folks to work and make our country more competitive.  Taken together with the small business tax cut and lending plan we passed through Congress last week, these steps will help spur jobs in the short run, and strengthen our economy for the long run. Now, the Republicans who want to take over Congress offered their own ideas the other day.  Many were the very same policies that led to the economic crisis in the first place, which isn't surprising, since many of their leaders were among the architects of that failed policy. It is grounded in same worn out philosophy: cut taxes for millionaires and billionaires; cut the rules for Wall Street and the special interests; and cut the middle class loose to fend for itself.  That's not a prescription for a better future.  It's an echo of a disastrous decade we can't afford to relive. The Republicans in Washington claimed to draw their ideas from a website called "America Speaking Out." It turns out that one of the ideas that's drawn the most interest on their website is ending tax breaks for companies that ship jobs overseas. Funny thing is, when we recently closed one of the most egregious loopholes for companies creating jobs overseas, Republicans in Congress were almost unanimously opposed. The Republican leader John Boehner attacked us for it, and stood up for outsourcing, instead of American workers. So, America may be speaking out, but Republicans in Congress sure aren't listening. They want to put special interests back in the driver's seat in Washington. They want to roll back the law that will finally stop health insurance companies from denying you coverage on the basis of a preexisting condition. They want to repeal reforms that will finally protect hardworking families from hidden rates and penalties every time they use a credit card, make a mortgage payment, or take out a student loan. And for all their talk about reining in spending and getting our deficits under control, they want to borrow another $700 billion, and use it to give tax cuts to millionaires and billionaires. On average, that's a tax cut of about $100,000 for millionaires. Instead of cutting taxes for the wealthiest few - tax breaks we cannot afford - I've called for tax cuts for middle class families who saw their incomes shrink by five percent during the last, lost decade. We've already cut 8 different taxes for small business owners to help them hire and grow, and we're going to cut 8 more. We're challenging our states and schools to do a better job educating our kids and making college more affordable so America can once more lead the world in the proportion of our kids graduating from college. And we're putting an end to the days of taxpayer-funded bailouts so Main Street never again has to pay for Wall Street's mistakes.  America is a great country. Our democracy is vibrant, our economy is dynamic, and our workers can outcompete the best of them. But the way for us to remain the greatest country on Earth isn't to turn back the clock and put the special interests in charge. It's to make sure all our people are getting a fair shake. It's to make sure everyone who's willing to work for it still has a chance to reach for the American dream. And that will remain my mission every single day so long as I have the honor of serving as President. Have a nice weekend, everybody.
've been fighting not just to create more jobs today, but to rebuild our economy on a stronger foundation.  Our future as a nation depends on making sure that the jobs and industries of the 21st century take root here in America.  And there is perhaps no industry with more potential to create jobs now - and growth in the coming years - than clean energy. For decades, we've talked about the importance of ending our dependence on foreign oil and pursuing new kinds of energy, like wind and solar power.  But for just as long, progress had been prevented at every turn by the special interests and their allies in Washington.  So, year after year, our dependence on foreign oil grew.  Families have been held hostage to spikes in gas prices.  Good manufacturing jobs have gone overseas.  And we've seen companies produce new energy technologies and high-skilled jobs not in America, but in countries like China, India and Germany.  It was essential - for our economy, our security, and our planet - that we finally tackle this challenge.  That is why, since we took office, my administration has made an historic commitment to promote clean energy technology.  This will mean hundreds of thousands of new American jobs by 2012.  Jobs for contractors to install energy-saving windows and insulation.  Jobs for factory workers to build high-tech vehicle batteries, electric cars, and hybrid trucks.  Jobs for engineers and construction crews to create wind farms and solar plants that are going to double the renewable energy we can generate in this country.  These are jobs building the future. For example, I want share with you one new development, made possible by the clean energy incentives we have launched.  This month, in the Mojave Desert, a company called BrightSource plans to break ground on a revolutionary new type of solar power plant.  It's going to put about a thousand people to work building a state-of-the-art facility.  And when it's complete, it will turn sunlight into the energy that will power up to 140,000 homes - the largest such plant in the world.  Not in China.  Not in India.  But in California. With projects like this one, and others across this country, we are staking our claim to continued leadership in the new global economy.  And we're putting Americans to work producing clean, home-grown American energy that will help lower our reliance on foreign oil and protect our planet for future generations. Now there are some in Washington who want to shut them down.  In fact, in the Pledge they recently released, the Republican leadership is promising to scrap all the incentives for clean energy projects, including those currently underway - even with all the jobs and potential that they hold. This doesn't make sense for our economy.  It doesn't make sense for Americans who are looking for jobs. And it doesn't make sense for our future.  To go backwards and scrap these plans means handing the competitive edge to China and other nations.  It means that we'll grow even more dependent on foreign oil.  And, at a time of economic hardship, it means forgoing jobs we desperately need. In fact, shutting down just this one project would cost about a thousand jobs. That's what's at stake in this debate.  We can go back to the failed energy policies that profited the oil companies but weakened our country.  We can go back to the days when promising industries got set up overseas.  Or we can go after new jobs in growing industries. And we can spur innovation and help make our economy more competitive.  We know the choice that's right for America.  We need to do what we've always done - put our ingenuity and can do spirit to work to fight for a brighter future. Thanks.
.  And your message was clear.   You're rightly frustrated with the pace of our economic recovery.  So am I.   You're fed up with partisan politics and want results.  I do too.   So I congratulate all of this week's winners - Republicans, Democrats, and Independents.  But now, the campaign season is over.  And it's time to focus on our shared responsibilities to work together and deliver those results: speeding up our economic recovery, creating jobs, and strengthening the middle class so that the American Dream feels like it's back within reach.   That's why I've asked to sit down soon with leaders of both parties so that we can have an extended discussion about what we can do together to move this country forward.   And over the next few weeks, we're going to have a chance to work together in the brief upcoming session of Congress.     Here's why this lame duck session is so important.  Early in the last decade, President Bush and Congress enacted a series of tax cuts that were designed to expire at the end of this year.   What that means is, if Congress doesn't act by New Year's Eve, middle-class families will see their taxes go up starting on New Year's Day.   But the last thing we should do is raise taxes on middle-class families.  For the past decade, they saw their costs rise, their incomes fall, and too many jobs go overseas.  They're the ones bearing the brunt of the recession.  They're the ones having trouble making ends meet. They are the ones who need relief right now.   So something's got to be done.  And I believe there's room for us to compromise and get it done together.   Let's start where we agree.  All of us want certainty for middle-class Americans.  None of us want them to wake up on January 1st with a higher tax bill.  That's why I believe we should permanently extend the Bush tax cuts for all families making less than $250,000 a year.  That's 98 percent of the American people.     We also agree on the need to start cutting spending and bringing down our deficit.  That's going to require everyone to make some tough choices.  In fact, if Congress were to implement my proposal to freeze non-security discretionary spending for three years, it would bring this spending down to its lowest level as share of the economy in 50 years.   But at a time when we are going to ask folks across the board to make such difficult sacrifices, I don't see how we can afford to borrow an additional $700 billion from other countries to make all the Bush tax cuts permanent, even for the wealthiest 2 percent of Americans.  We'd be digging ourselves into an even deeper fiscal hole and passing the burden on to our children.   I recognize that both parties are going to have to work together and compromise to get something done here.  But I want to make my priorities clear from the start.  One: middle class families need permanent tax relief. And two: I believe we can't afford to borrow and spend another $700 billion on permanent tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires.   There are new public servants in Washington, but we still face the same challenges.  And you made it clear that it's time for results. This a great opportunity to show everyone that we got the message and that we're willing, in this post-election season, to come together and do what's best for the country we all love.   Thanks.
'm concluding a trip to Asia whose purpose was to open new markets for American products in this fast-growing part of the world. The economic battle for these markets is fierce, and we're up against strong competitors. But as I've said many times, America doesn't play for second place. The future we're fighting for isn't as the world's largest importer, consuming products made elsewhere, but as the world's largest manufacturer of ideas and goods sold around the world.   Opening new markets will not only help America's businesses create new jobs for American workers. It will also help us reduce our deficits - because the single greatest tool for getting our fiscal house in order is robust economic growth. That kind of growth will require ensuring that our students are getting the best education possible; that we're on the cutting edge of research and development; and that we're rebuilding our roads and railways, runways and ports - so our infrastructure is up to the challenges of the 21st century.     Given the deficits that have mounted up over the past decade, we can't afford to make these investments unless we're also willing to cut what we don't need. That's why I've submitted to Congress a plan for a three-year budget freeze, and I'm prepared to offer additional savings.  But as we work to reform our budget, Congress should also put some skin in the game. I agree with those Republican and Democratic members of Congress who've recently said that in these challenging days, we can't afford what are called earmarks. These are items inserted into spending bills by members of Congress without adequate review.   Now, some of these earmarks support worthy projects in our local communities. But many others do not. We can't afford Bridges to Nowhere like the one that was planned a few years back in Alaska. Earmarks like these represent a relatively small part of overall federal spending. But when it comes to signaling our commitment to fiscal responsibility, addressing them would have an important impact.   As a Senator, I helped eliminate anonymous earmarks and created new measures of transparency so Americans can better follow how their tax dollars are being spent. As President, time and again, I've called for new limitations on earmarks. We've reduced the cost of earmarks by over $3 billion. And we've put in place higher standards of transparency by putting as much information as possible on earmarks.gov. In fact, this week, we updated the site with more information about where last year's earmarks were actually spent, and made it easier to look up Members of Congress and the earmarks they fought for.   Today, we have a chance to go further. We have a chance to not only shine a light on a bad Washington habit that wastes billions of taxpayer dollars, but take a step towards restoring public trust. We have a chance to advance the interests not of Republicans or Democrats, but of the American people; to put our country on the path of fiscal discipline and responsibility that will lead to a brighter economic future for all. And that's a future I hope we can reach across party lines to build together.   Thanks everybody, and have a great weekend.
'd like to speak with you about an issue that is fundamental to America's national security: the need for the Senate to approve the New START Treaty this year. This Treaty is rooted in a practice that dates back to Ronald Reagan. The idea is simple - as the two nations with over 90 percent of the world's nuclear weapons, the United States and Russia have a responsibility to work together to reduce our arsenals. And to ensure that our national security is protected, the United States has an interest in tracking Russia's nuclear arsenal through a verification effort that puts U.S. inspectors on the ground. As President Reagan said when he signed a nuclear arms treaty with the Soviet Union in 1987, "Trust, but verify." That is precisely what the New START Treaty does. After nearly a full year of negotiations, we completed an agreement earlier this year that cuts by a third the number of long-range nuclear weapons and delivery vehicles that the United States and Russia can deploy, while ensuring that America retains a strong nuclear deterrent, and can put inspectors back on the ground in Russia. The Treaty also helped us reset our relations with Russia, which led to concrete benefits. For instance, Russia has been indispensable to our efforts to enforce strong sanctions on Iran, to secure loose nuclear material from terrorists, and to equip our troops in Afghanistan. All of this will be put to risk if the Senate does not pass the New START Treaty. Without ratification this year, the United States will have no inspectors on the ground, and no ability to verify Russian nuclear activities. So those who would block this treaty are breaking President Reagan's rule - they want to trust, but not verify. Without ratification, we put at risk the coalition that we have built to put pressure on Iran, and the transit route through Russia that we use to equip our troops in Afghanistan. And without ratification, we risk undoing decades of American leadership on nuclear security, and decades of bipartisanship on this issue. Our security and our position in the world are at stake. Indeed, since the Reagan years, every President has pursued a negotiated, verified, arms reduction treaty. And every time that these treaties have been reviewed by the Senate, they have passed with over 85 votes. Bipartisan support for New START could not be stronger. It has been endorsed by Republicans from the Reagan Administration and both Bush Administrations - including Colin Powell, George Shultz, Jim Baker, and Henry Kissinger. And it was approved by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee by a strong bipartisan vote of 14-4. Over the last several months, several questions have been asked about New START, and we have answered every single one. Some have asked whether it will limit our missile defense - it will not. Some, including Senator Jon Kyl, have asked that we modernize our nuclear infrastructure for the 21st century - we are doing so, and plan to invest at least $85 billion in that effort over the next ten years - a significant increase from the Bush Administration. Finally, some make no argument against the Treaty - they just ask for more time. But remember this: it has already been 11 months since we've had inspectors in Russia, and every day that goes by without ratification is a day that we lose confidence in our understanding of Russia's nuclear weapons. If the Senate doesn't act this year - after six months, 18 hearings, and nearly a thousand questions answered - it would have to start over from scratch in January. The choice is clear: a failure to ratify New START would be a dangerous gamble with America's national security, setting back our understanding of Russia's nuclear weapons, as well as our leadership in the world. That is not what the American people sent us to Washington to do. There is enough gridlock, enough bickering. If there is one issue that should unite us - as Republicans and Democrats - it should be our national security. Some things are bigger than politics. As Republican Dick Lugar said the other day, "Every Senator has an obligation in the national security interest to take a stand, to do his or her duty." Senator Lugar is right. And if the Senate passes this treaty, it will not be an achievement for Democrats or Republicans - it will be a win for America. Thanks.
.  As we close the books on one year and begin another, I wanted to take a moment today to wish you a very Happy New Year and talk a little bit about the year that lies ahead. At the start of 2011, we're still just emerging from a once-in-a-lifetime recession that's taken a terrible toll on millions of families.  We all have friends and neighbors trying to get their lives back on track.  We are, however, riding a few months of economic news that suggests our recovery is gaining traction.  And our most important task now is to keep that recovery going.  As President, that's my commitment to you: to do everything I can to make sure our economy is growing, creating jobs, and strengthening our middle class.  That's my resolution for the coming year. Still, even as we work to boost our economy in the short-term, it's time to make some serious decisions about how to keep our economy strong, growing, and competitive in the long run.  We have to look ahead - not just to this year, but to the next 10 years, and the next 20 years.  Where will new innovations come from?  How will we attract the companies of tomorrow to set up shop and create jobs in our communities?  What will it take to get those jobs?  What will it take to out-compete other countries around the world?  What will it take to see the American Dream come true for our children and grandchildren? Our parents and grandparents asked themselves those questions.  And because they had the courage to answer them, we've had the good fortune to grow up in the greatest nation on Earth. Now it's our turn to think about the future.  In a few days, a new Congress will form, with one house controlled by Democrats, and one house controlled by Republicans - who now have a shared responsibility to move this country forward.  And here's what I want you to know: I'm willing to work with anyone of either party who's got a good idea and the commitment to see it through.  And we should all expect you to hold us accountable for our progress or our failure to deliver. As I've said since I first ran for this office, solving our challenges won't be quick or easy.  We have come through a difficult decade; one of new threats and new trials we didn't expect when it began.  But a new year and a new decade stretch out before us.  And if we just remember what America is capable of, and live up to that legacy, then I'm confident that we are poised for a period of progress - one in which our economy is growing, our standing in the world is rising, and we do what it takes to make sure America remains in the 21st century what it was in the 20th: the greatest country in the world.  Thanks for listening.  And Happy New Year.
:  Merry Christmas, everybody.  Michelle and I just wanted to take a moment today to send greetings from our family to yours. THE FIRST LADY:  This is one of our favorite times of year.  And we're so fortunate to be able to celebrate it together in this wonderful home. This is the "People's House."  So Barack and I try to open it to as many people as we can, especially during the holiday season. This month, more than 100,000 Americans have passed through these halls.  And the idea behind this year's theme, "Simple Gifts," is that the greatest blessings of all are the ones that don't cost a thing - the comfort of spending time with loved ones...the freedoms we enjoy as Americans... and the joy we feel upon giving something of ourselves. So in this time of family, friends, and good cheer; let's also be sure to look out for those who are less fortunate, who've hit a run of bad luck, or who are hungry and alone this holiday season. THE PRESIDENT:  Because this is the season when we celebrate the simplest yet most profound gift of all: the birth of a child who devoted his life to a message of peace, love, and redemption.  A message that says no matter who we are, we are called to love one another - we are our brother's keeper, we are our sister's keeper, our separate stories in this big and busy world are really one.  Today, we're also thinking of those who can't be home for the holidays - especially all our courageous countrymen serving overseas. That's the message I delivered when I visited our troops in Afghanistan a few weeks ago - that while you may be serving far from home, every American supports you and your families.  We're with you.  And I have no greater honor than serving as your Commander in Chief. Today's soldiers, sailors, airmen, Marines, and Coast Guardsmen make up the finest fighting force in the history of the world.  Just like their predecessors, they do extraordinary things in service to their country.  What makes that all the more remarkable is that today's military is an all-volunteer force - a force of mothers and fathers, sons and daughters, husbands and wives.  THE FIRST LADY:  That's right.  As First Lady, I've had the honor to meet members of our military and their families on bases and in communities all across the country.  I've gotten to know husbands and wives doing the parenting of two while their spouse is on another deployment...children trying their best in school but always wondering when mom or dad is coming home...patriots putting their lives on hold to help with a loved one's recovery...or carry on the memory of a fallen hero. When our men and women in uniform answer the call to serve, their families serve, too.  And they're proud and glad to do it.  But as long as that service keeps the rest of us safe, their sacrifice should also be our own.  Even heroes can use a hand, especially during the holidays. THE PRESIDENT:  So we're encouraging Americans to ask what you can do to support our troops and their families in this holiday season.  For some ideas on how to get started, just visit Serve.gov. THE FIRST LADY:  You'll see that you don't need to be an expert in military life to give back to those who give so much to us.  There are countless ways to contribute by harnessing your unique talents. If you live near a base, you can reach out through your local school or church.  If you don't, you can volunteer with organizations that support military families.  And anybody can send a care package or pre-paid calling card to the front lines, or give what's sometimes the most important gift of all: simply saying "thank you." THE PRESIDENT:   America's brave servicemen and women represent a small fraction of our population.  But they and the families who await their safe return carry far more than their fair share of the burden.  They've done everything they've been asked to do.  They've been everything we've asked them to be.  And even as we speak, many are fighting halfway around the globe - in hopes that someday, our children and grandchildren won't have to. So let's all remind them this holiday season that we're thinking of them - and that America will forever be here for them, just as they've been there for us. And on behalf of Michelle, Malia, Sasha... THE FIRST LADY:  and Bo... THE PRESIDENT:  and Bo...have a very Merry Christmas. THE FIRST LADY:  and an even happier New Year.
.  This Father's Day weekend, I'd like to spend a couple minutes talking about what's sometimes my hardest, but always my most rewarding job - being a dad.  I grew up without my father around. He left when I was two years old, and even though my sister and I were lucky enough to have a wonderful mother and caring grandparents to raise us, I felt his absence.  And I wonder what my life would have been like had he been a greater presence.  That's why I've tried so hard to be a good dad for my own children.  I haven't always succeeded, of course - in the past, my job has kept me away from home more often than I liked, and the burden of raising two young girls would sometimes fall too heavily on Michelle.  But between my own experiences growing up, and my ongoing efforts to be the best father I can be, I've learned a few things about what our children need most from their parents.  First, they need our time.  And more important than the quantity of hours we spend with them is the quality of those hours.  Maybe it's just asking about their day, or talking a walk together, but the smallest moments can have the biggest impact.  They also need structure, including learning the values of self-discipline and responsibility. Malia and Sasha may live in the White House these days, but Michelle and I still make sure they finish their schoolwork, do their chores, and walk the dog.  And above all, children need our unconditional love - whether they succeed or make mistakes; when life is easy and when life is tough.  And life is tough for a lot of Americans today.  More and more kids grow up without a father figure.  Others miss a father who's away serving his country in uniform.  And even for those dads who are present in their children's lives, the recession has taken a harsh toll.  If you're out of a job or struggling to pay the bills, doing whatever it takes to keep the kids healthy, happy and safe can understandably take precedence over all else.  That's why my administration has offered men who want to be good fathers a little extra support.  We've boosted community and faith-based groups focused on fatherhood, partnered with businesses to offer opportunities for fathers to spend time with their kids at the bowling alley or ballpark, and worked with military chaplains to help deployed dads connect with their children.  We're doing this because we all have a stake in forging stronger bonds between fathers and their children.  And you can find out more about some of what we're doing at Fatherhood.gov.  But we also know that every father has a personal responsibility to do right by our kids as well. All of us can encourage our children to turn off the video games and pick up a book.  All of us can pack a healthy lunch for our son, or go outside and play ball with our daughter.  And all of us can teach our children the difference between right and wrong, and show them through our own example the value in treating one another as we wish to be treated.  Our kids are pretty smart.  They understand that life won't always be perfect, that sometimes, the road gets rough, that even great parents don't get everything right.  But more than anything, they just want us to be a part of their lives.  So recently, I took on a second job: assistant coach for Sasha's basketball team.  On Sundays, we'd get the team together to practice, and a couple of times, I'd help coach the games.  It was a lot of fun - even if Sasha rolled her eyes when her dad voiced his displeasure with the refs.  But I was so proud watching her run up and down the court, seeing her learn and improve and gain confidence.  And I was hopeful that in the years to come, she'd look back on experiences like these as the ones that helped define her as a person - and as a parent herself.         In the end, that's what being a parent is all about - those precious moments with our children that fill us with pride and excitement for their future; the chances we have to set an example or offer a piece of advice; the opportunities to just be there and show them that we love them.  That's something worth remembering this Father's Day, and every day.  Thanks, and Happy Father's Day to all the dads out there.  Have a great weekend.
.C.         Hello, everyone. I want to spend a couple minutes talking with you about our economy. We've just come through the worst recession since the Great Depression, and while our economy as a whole has been growing and adding private sector jobs, too many folks are still struggling to get back on their feet. I wish I could tell you there was a quick fix to our economic problems. But the truth is, we didn't get into this mess overnight, and we won't get out of it overnight. It's going to take time.          The good news is, when it comes to job-creation and economic growth, there are certain things we know we can do. Now, government is not - and should not be - the main engine of job-creation in this country. That's the role of the private sector. But one thing government can do is partner with the private sector to make sure that every worker has the necessary skills for the jobs they're applying for.          On Wednesday, I announced commitments by the private sector, colleges, and the National Association of Manufacturers that will make it possible for 500,000 community college students to get a manufacturing credential that has the industry's stamp of approval. If you're a company that's hiring, you'll know that anyone who has this degree has the skills you're looking for. If you're a student considering community college, you'll know that your diploma will give you a leg up in the job market.          On Monday, I'll travel to North Carolina, where I'll meet with my Jobs Council and talk about additional steps we can take to spur private sector hiring in the short-term and ensure our workers have the skills and training they need in this economy.          There are also a few other things we know will help grow our economy, and give people good jobs that support a middle-class lifestyle. We know that a quality education is a prerequisite for success, so we're challenging states and school districts to improve teaching and learning, and making it a national goal to once again have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world by 2020.          We know that more and more jobs are being created in the clean energy sector, so we're investing in wind power, solar power, and biofuels that will make us less dependent on foreign oil and clean up our planet for our children. These are steps we know will make a difference in people's lives - not just twenty years from now, or ten years from now, but now, and in the months to come.         In the end, the folks I hear from in letters or meet when I travel across the country - they aren't asking for much. They're just looking for a job that covers their bills. They're just looking for a little financial security. They want to know that if they work hard and live within their means, everything will be all right. They'll be able to get ahead, and give their kids a better life. That's the dream each of us has for ourselves and our families. And so long as I have the privilege of serving as President, I'll keep fighting to put that dream within reach for all Americans. Have a great weekend, everybody.
've spoken to you about the periodic reports of the Labor Department on the number of jobs created or lost during the previous month; numbers that tell a story about how America's economy is faring overall.   In those first months, the numbers were nothing short of devastating. The worst recession since the 1930s had wreaked havoc on the lives of so many of our fellow Americans. Yesterday, the numbers released by the Labor Department reflected a continuing positive trend of diminishing job loss. But for those who were laid off last month and the millions of Americans who have lost their jobs in this recession, a good trend isn't good enough. Trends don't buy the groceries. Trends don't pay the rent or a college tuition. Trends don't fulfill the need within each of us to be productive, to provide for our families, to make the most of our lives, to reach for our dreams. So, it is true that we, as a country, are in a very different place than we were when 2009 began. Because of the Recovery Act and a number of other steps we've taken, we're no longer facing the potential collapse of our financial system or a second Great Depression. We're no longer losing jobs at a rate of 700,000 a month. And our economy's growing for the first time in a year. But too many of our neighbors are still out of work because the growth we've seen hasn't yet translated into all the jobs we need. Stung by this brutal recession, businesses that have kept their doors open are still wary about adding workers.  Instead of hiring, many are simply asking their employees to work more hours, or they're adding temporary help.  History tells us this is usually what happens with recessions - even as the economy grows, it takes time for jobs to follow. But the folks who have been looking for work without any luck for months and, in some cases, years, can't wait any longer. For them, I'm determined to do everything I can to accelerate our progress so we're actually adding jobs again. That's why, this week, I invited a group of business owners from across the country to the White House to talk about additional steps we can take to help jumpstart hiring. We brought together unions and universities to talk about what we can do to support our workers today and prepare our students to outcompete workers around the world tomorrow. We brought together mayors and community leaders to talk about how we can open up new opportunities in our cities and towns. On Friday, I spent the day in Allentown, Pennsylvania, and met with workers and small business owners there. I stopped by a steel company called Allentown Metal Works, and spoke at Lehigh Community College. I visited folks at a job placement center, and stopped by a shift change at Alpo.  The stories and concerns I heard mirrored the countless letters I receive every single day. And they speak louder than any statistic or government report. The folks in Allentown - and in all the Allentowns across our country - are the most dedicated, productive workers in the world. All they're asking for is a chance, and a fair shake. And that's exactly what I'm working to give them. In the coming days, I'll be unveiling additional ideas aimed at accelerating job growth and hiring as we emerge from this economic storm. And so that we don't face another crisis like this again, I'm determined to meet our responsibility to do what we know will strengthen our economy in the long-run. That's why I'm not going to let up in my efforts to reform our health care system; to give our children the best education in the world; to promote the jobs of tomorrow and energy independence by investing in a clean energy economy; and to deal with the mounting federal debt. From the moment I was sworn into office, we have taken a number of difficult steps to end this economic crisis. We didn't take them because they were popular or gratifying. They weren't. We took these steps because they were necessary. But I didn't run for President to pass emergency recovery programs, or to bail out banks or to shore up auto companies. I didn't run for President simply to manage the crisis of the moment, while kicking our most pressing problems down the road. I ran for President to help hardworking families succeed and to stand up for the embattled middle class. I ran to fight for a country where responsibility is still rewarded, and hard-working people can get ahead.  I ran to keep faith with the sacred American principle that we will deliver to our children a future of even greater possibility. And my commitment to you, the American people, is that I will focus every single day on how we can get people back to work, and how we can build an economy that continues to make real the promise of America for generations to come.
's Bill of Rights - a set of rules to protect Americans from some of the worst practices of the health insurance industry; rules to ensure that all Americans are getting the care they need from their doctors and the care they deserve from their insurance companies. The last time a Patient's Bill of Rights was within reach was roughly a decade ago, and it was supported by Democrats and Republicans alike, from Ted Kennedy to John McCain. It included the right to an appeals process so you could challenge an unfair decision by an insurance company before a third party. It included the right to choose your own doctor. It included the right to access information about what your health insurance plan means for you. And it called for a new level of transparency so that patients would know if their doctors had a conflict of interest when providing services.  Now, this Patient's Bill of Rights never made it into law. It fell victim - again and again - to the same special interest lobbying that has blocked passage of health insurance reform for so many decades. But today, we are being given another chance to make it a reality, because each of these rights, and many more, are incorporated in the health insurance reform bill that recently passed the House of Representatives and in the bill that is currently making its way through the Senate. Both the House and Senate bills would make it against the law for insurance companies to deny you coverage on the basis of a pre-existing condition or illness. Both would stop insurers from charging exorbitant premiums on the basis of age, health, or gender.  Both would prevent insurance companies from dropping your coverage when you get sick. And both would put a limit on how much you have to pay out of pocket for the treatments you need in a year or lifetime. Simply put, the protections currently included in both the health insurance reform bill passed by the House and the version currently on the Senate floor would represent the toughest measures we've ever taken to hold the insurance industry accountable.  Anyone who says otherwise simply hasn't read the bills. Just open these proposals at random and you'll find on almost any page patient protections that dwarf any of those passed by Congress in at least a decade. These protections are just one part of a landmark reform that will finally reduce the cost of health care. When it becomes law, families will save on their premiums. Small businesses and Americans who don't get any insurance today through their employers will no longer be forced to pay punishingly high rates to get coverage. This legislation will also strengthen Medicare and extend the life of the program, while saving senior citizens hundreds of dollars a year in prescription costs. And reforms to target waste, inefficiency, and price-gouging by the insurance industry will help make this the largest deficit reduction plan in over a decade. The insurance industry knows all this. That's why they're at it again, using their muscle in Washington to try to block a vote they know they will lose. They're lobbying. They're running ads. They're spending millions of dollars to kill health insurance reform, just like they've done so many times before.  They want to preserve a system that works better for the insurance industry than it does for the American people. But now - for the first time - there is a clear majority in the Senate that's willing to stand up to the insurance lobby and embrace lasting health insurance reforms that have eluded us for generations. The question is whether the minority that opposes these reforms will continue to use parliamentary maneuvers to try and stop the Senate from voting on them. Whatever their position on health insurance reform, Senators ought to allow an up or down vote. Let's bring this long and vigorous debate to an end. Let's deliver on the promise of health insurance reforms that will make our people healthier, our economy stronger, and our future more secure. And as this difficult year comes to a close, let's show the American people that we are equal to the task of meeting our great challenges. Thanks for listening, and on behalf of Michelle, Malia, Sasha, and Bo, happy holidays, from our family to yours.
.  On Thursday, I received the preliminary findings of the reviews that I ordered into our terrorist watchlist system and air travel screening.  I've directed my counterterrorism and homeland security advisor at the White House, John Brennan, to lead these reviews going forward and to present the final results and recommendations to me in the days to come. As I said this week, I will do everything in my power to make sure our hard-working men and women in our intelligence, law enforcement and homeland security communities have the tools and resources they need to keep America safe.  This includes making sure these communities-and the people in them-are coordinating effectively and are held accountable at every level.  And as President, that is what I will do. Meanwhile, the investigation into the Christmas Day incident continues, and we're learning more about the suspect.  We know that he traveled to Yemen, a country grappling with crushing poverty and deadly insurgencies.  It appears that he joined an affiliate of al Qaeda, and that this group-al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula-trained him, equipped him with those explosives and directed him to attack that plane headed for America. This is not the first time this group has targeted us.  In recent years, they have bombed Yemeni government facilities and Western hotels, restaurants and embassies-including our embassy in 2008, killing one American.  So, as President, I've made it a priority to strengthen our partnership with the Yemeni government-training and equipping their security forces, sharing intelligence and working with them to strike al Qaeda terrorists. And even before Christmas Day, we had seen the results.  Training camps have been struck; leaders eliminated; plots disrupted.  And all those involved in the attempted act of terrorism on Christmas must know-you too will be held to account.     But these efforts are only part of a wider cause.  It's been nearly a year since I stood on the steps of the U.S. Capitol and took the oath of office as your President.  And with that oath came the solemn responsibility that I carry with me every moment of every day-the responsibility to protect the safety and security of the American people. On that day I also made it very clear-our nation is at war against a far-reaching network of violence and hatred, and that we will do whatever it takes to defeat them and defend our country, even as we uphold the values that have always distinguished America among nations. And make no mistake, that's exactly what we've been doing.  It's why I refocused the fight-bringing to a responsible end the war in Iraq, which had nothing to do with the 9/11 attacks, and dramatically increasing our resources in the region where al Qaeda is actually based, in Afghanistan and Pakistan.  It's why I've set a clear and achievable mission-to disrupt, dismantle and defeat al Qaeda and its extremist allies and prevent their return to either country. And it's why we've forged new partnerships, as in Yemen, and put unrelenting pressure on these extremists wherever they plot and train-from East Africa to Southeast Asia, from Europe to the Persian Gulf.  And though often out of sight, our progress has been unmistakable.  Along with our partners, we've disrupted terrorist financing, cut off recruiting chains, inflicted major losses on al Qaeda's leadership, thwarted plots here in the United States, and saved countless American lives. Yet as the Christmas Day attempt illustrates, and as we were reminded this week by the sacrifices of more brave Americans in Afghanistan-including those seven dedicated men and women of the CIA-the hard work of protecting our nation is never done.  So as our reviews continue, let us ask the questions that need to be asked.  Let us make the changes that need to be made.  Let us debate the best way to protect the country we all love.  That is the right and responsibility of every American and every elected official. But as we go forward, let us remember this-our adversaries are those who would attack our country, not our fellow Americans, not each other. Let's never forget what has always carried us through times of trial, including those attacks eight Septembers ago. Instead of giving in to fear and cynicism, let's renew that timeless American spirit of resolve and confidence and optimism.  Instead of succumbing to partisanship and division, let's summon the unity that this moment demands.  Let's work together, with a seriousness of purpose, to do what must be done to keep our country safe.              As we begin this New Year, I cannot imagine a more fitting resolution to guide us-as a people and as a nation.
.  The first was that there would be better days ahead.  And the second was that the road to recovery would be long, and sometimes bumpy. That was brought home again yesterday.  We learned that in November, our economy saw its first month of job gains in nearly two years - but last month, we lost more than we gained.  Now, we know that no single month makes a trend, and job losses for the final quarter of 2009 were one-tenth what they were in the first quarter.  But until we see a trend of good, sustainable job creation, we will be relentless in our efforts to put America back to work. That task goes even deeper than replacing the seven million jobs that have been lost over the past two years.  We need to rebuild our economy in such a way that our families can feel a measure of security again.  Too many of the folks I've talked with this year, and whose stories I read in letters at night, tell me that they've known their own private recessions since long before economists declared one - and they'll still feel the recession long after economists have declared it over. That's because, for decades, Washington avoided doing what was right in favor of doing what was easy.  And the result was an economy where some made out well, but the middle class too often took a beating. Over the past decade, the income of the average household actually declined, and we lost as many jobs as we created.  Hardworking folks who did everything right suddenly found themselves forced to downscale their dreams because of economic factors beyond their control.  We're talking about simple dreams.  American dreams.  A good job with a good wage.  A secure and dignified retirement.  Stable health care so you don't go broke just because you get sick.  The chance to give our kids a better shot than we got. That's why, as we begin to emerge from this crisis, we will not return to the complacency that helped cause it.  Even as we focus on putting America back to work today, we're building a new foundation for our economy to create the good, lasting jobs and shared prosperity of tomorrow. We're making historic investments in science and in a clean energy economy that will generate and keep the jobs and industries of the future right here in America. We're reforming our education system, so that our kids are fully prepared to compete with workers anywhere in the world and win the race for the 21st century. We're fixing our broken health insurance system that's crushing families, eating away at workers' take-home pay, and nailing small businesses with double-digit premium increases. And that's what I'd like to focus on for a minute.  After a long and thorough debate, we are on the verge of passing health insurance reform that will finally offer Americans the security of knowing they'll have quality, affordable health care whether they lose their job, change jobs, move, or get sick.  The worst practices of the insurance industry will be banned forever.  And costs will finally come down for families, businesses, and our government. Now, it'll take a few years to fully implement these reforms in a responsible way.  But what every American should know is that once I sign health insurance reform into law, there are dozens of protections and benefits that will take effect this year. Uninsured Americans with a pre-existing illness or condition will finally be able to purchase coverage they can afford. Children with pre-existing conditions will no longer be refused coverage, and young adults will be able to stay on their parents' policy until they're 26 or 27 years old. Small business owners who can't afford to cover their employees will be immediately offered tax credits to purchase coverage. Early retirees who receive coverage from their employers will see their coverage protected and their premiums go down. Seniors who fall into the coverage gap known as the donut hole will receive discounts of up to 50 percent on their prescriptions as we begin to close that gap altogether. And every patient's choice of doctor will be protected, along with access to emergency care. Here's what else will happen within the first year.  Insurance plans will be required to offer free preventive care to their customers - so that we can start catching preventable illnesses and diseases on the front end.  They'll no longer be allowed to impose restrictive annual limits on the amount of coverage you receive or lifetime limits on the amount of benefits you receive.  They'll be prohibited from dropping your coverage when you get sick and need it most.  And there will be a new, independent appeals process for anyone who feels they were unfairly denied a claim by their insurance company. In short, once I sign health insurance reform into law, doctors and patients will have more control over their health care decisions, and insurance company bureaucrats will have less.  All told, these changes represent the most sweeping reforms and toughest restrictions on insurance companies that this country has ever known.  That's how we'll make 2010 a healthier and more secure year for every American - for those who have health insurance, and those who don't. We enter a new decade, now, with new perils - but we're going to meet them.  It's also a time of tremendous promise - and we're going to seize it.  We will rebuild the American Dream for our middle class and put the American economy on a stronger footing for the future.  And this year, I am as hopeful and as confident as ever that we're going to rise to this moment the same way that generations of Americans always have: as one nation, and one people. Thanks for listening.
. Countless businesses have been forced to shut their doors.  Few families have escaped the pain of this terrible recession.  Rarely does a day go by that I do not hear from folks who are hurting.  That is why we have pushed so hard to rebuild this economy.  But even as we work tirelessly to dig our way out of this hole, it is important that we address what led us into such a deep mess in the first place.  Much of the turmoil of this recession was caused by the irresponsibility of banks and financial institutions on Wall Street.  These financial firms took huge, reckless risks in pursuit of short-term profits and soaring bonuses.  They gambled with borrowed money, without enough oversight or regard for the consequences.  And when they lost, they lost big.  Little more than a year ago, many of the largest and oldest financial firms in the world teetered on the brink of collapse, overwhelmed by the consequences of their irresponsible decisions.  This financial crisis nearly pulled the entire economy into a second Great Depression.  As a result, the American people - struggling in their own right - were placed in a deeply unfair and unsatisfying position.  Even though these financial firms were largely facing a crisis of their own creation, their failure could have led to an even greater calamity for the country.  That is why the previous administration started a program - the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP - to provide these financial institutions with funds to survive the turmoil they helped unleash.  It was a distasteful but necessary thing to do.  Many originally feared that most of the $700 billion in TARP money would be lost.  But when my administration came into office, we put in place rigorous rules for accountability and transparency, which cut the cost of the bailout dramatically.  We have now recovered most of the money we provided to the banks.  That's good news, but as far as I'm concerned, it's not good enough.  We want the taxpayers' money back, and we're going to collect every dime. That is why, this week, I proposed a new fee on major financial firms to compensate the American people for the extraordinary assistance they provided to the financial industry.  And the fee would be in place until the American taxpayer is made whole. Only the largest financial firms with more than $50 billion in assets will be affected, not community banks.  And the bigger the firm - and the more debt it holds - the larger the fee.  Because we are not only going to recover our money and help close our deficits; we are going to attack some of the banking practices that led to the crisis. That's important.  The fact is, financial firms play an essential role in our economy.  They provide capital and credit to families purchasing homes, students attending college, businesses looking to start up or expand.  This is critical to our recovery.  That is why our goal with this fee - and with the common-sense financial reforms we seek - is not to punish the financial industry.  Our goal is to prevent the abuse and excess that nearly led to its collapse.  Our goal is to promote fair dealings while punishing those who game the system; to encourage sustained growth while discouraging the speculative bubbles that inevitably burst.  Ultimately, that is in the shared interest of the financial industry and the American people. Of course, I would like the banks to embrace this sense of mutual responsibility.  So far, though, they have ferociously fought financial reform.  The industry has even joined forces with the opposition party to launch a massive lobbying campaign against common-sense rules to protect consumers and prevent another crisis.  Now, like clockwork, the banks and politicians who curry their favor are already trying to stop this fee from going into effect.  The very same firms reaping billions of dollars in profits, and reportedly handing out more money in bonuses and compensation than ever before in history, are now pleading poverty.  It's a sight to see. Those who oppose this fee say the banks can't afford to pay back the American people without passing on the costs to their shareholders and customers.  But that's hard to believe when there are reports that Wall Street is going to hand out more money in bonuses and compensation just this year than the cost of this fee over the next ten years.  If the big financial firms can afford massive bonuses, they can afford to pay back the American people. Those who oppose this fee have also had the audacity to suggest that it is somehow unfair. That because these firms have already returned what they borrowed directly, their obligation is fulfilled. But this willfully ignores the fact that the entire industry benefited not only from the bailout, but from the assistance extended to AIG and homeowners, and from the many unprecedented emergency actions taken by the Federal Reserve, the FDIC, and others to prevent a financial collapse.  And it ignores a far greater unfairness: sticking the American taxpayer with the bill. That is unacceptable to me, and to the American people.  We're not going to let Wall Street take the money and run.  We're going to pass this fee into law.  And I'm going to continue to work with Congress on common-sense financial reforms to protect people and the economy from the kind of costly and painful crisis we've just been through.  Because after a very tough two years, after a crisis that has caused so much havoc, if there is one lesson that we can learn, it's this: we cannot return to business as usual. Thank you very much.
.  Our economy was shrinking at an alarming rate - the largest six-month decline in 50 years.  Our factories and farms were producing less; our businesses were selling less; and more job losses were on the horizon. One year later, according to numbers released this past week, this trend has reversed itself.  For the past six months, our economy has been growing again.  And last quarter, it grew more quickly than at any time in the past six years.  This is a sign of progress.  And it's an affirmation of the difficult decisions we made last year to pull our financial system back from the brink and get our economy moving again.  But when so many people are still struggling - when one in ten Americans still can't find work, and millions more are working harder and longer for less - our mission isn't just to grow the economy.  It's to grow jobs for folks who want them, and ensure wages are rising for those who have them.  It's not just about improvements we see in quarterly statistics, but ones people feel in their daily lives - a bigger paycheck; more security; the ability to give your kids a decent shot in life and still have enough to retire one day yourself. That's why job creation will be our number one focus in 2010.  We'll put more Americans back to work rebuilding our infrastructure all across the country.  And since the true engines of job creation are America's businesses, I've proposed tax credits to help them hire new workers, raise wages, and invest in new plants and equipment.  I also want to eliminate all capital gains taxes on small business investment, and help small businesses get the loans they need to open their doors and expand their operations.     But as we work to create jobs, it is critical that we rein in the budget deficits we've been accumulating for far too long - deficits that won't just burden our children and grandchildren, but could damage our markets, drive up our interest rates, and jeopardize our recovery right now. There are certain core principles our families and businesses follow when they sit down to do their own budgets.  They accept that they can't get everything they want and focus on what they really need.  They make tough decisions and sacrifice for their kids.  They don't spend what they don't have, and they make do with what they've got.  It's time their government did the same.  That's why I'm pleased that the Senate has just restored the pay-as-you-go law that was in place back in the 1990s.  It's no coincidence that we ended that decade with a $236 billion surplus.  But then we did away with PAYGO - and we ended the next decade with a $1.3 trillion deficit.  Reinstating this law will help get us back on track, ensuring that every time we spend, we find somewhere else to cut. I've also proposed a spending freeze, so that as we increase investments in things we need, like job creation and middle class tax cuts - we cut spending on those we don't, like tax cuts for oil companies and investment fund managers, and programs that are redundant, obsolete, or simply ineffective.  Spending related to Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security will not be affected - and neither will national security - but all other discretionary government programs will. Finally, I've called for a bi-partisan Fiscal Commission - a panel of Democrats and Republicans who would sit down and hammer out concrete deficit-reduction proposals by a certain deadline.  Because we've heard plenty of talk and a lot of yelling on TV about deficits, and it's now time to come together and make the painful choices we need to eliminate those deficits.  This past week, 53 Democrats and Republicans voted for this commission in the Senate.  But it failed when seven Republicans who had co-sponsored this idea in the first place suddenly decided to vote against it.  Now, it's one thing to have an honest difference of opinion about something.  I will always respect those who take a principled stand for what they believe, even if I disagree with them.  But what I won't accept is changing positions because it's good politics.  What I won't accept is opposition for opposition's sake.  We cannot have a serious discussion and take meaningful action to create jobs and control our deficits if politicians just do what's necessary to win the next election instead of what's best for the next generation.  I'm ready and eager to work with anyone who's serious about solving the real problems facing our people and our country.  I welcome anyone who comes to the table in good faith to help get our economy moving again and fulfill this country's promise.  That's why we were elected in the first place.  That's what the American people expect and deserve.  And that's what we must deliver.  Thank you.
.  Too many businesses are still shuttered.  Too many families can't make ends meet.  And while yesterday, we learned that the unemployment rate has dropped below ten percent for the first time since summer, it is still unacceptably high - and too many Americans still can't find work.  But what we must remember at a time like this is that we are not helpless in the face of our difficulties.  As Americans, we make our own destiny.  We forge our own path.  And I am confident that if we come together and put aside the politics that keeps holding us back, we can do that again.  We can rebuild this economy on a new, stronger foundation that leads to more jobs and greater prosperity. I believe a key part of that foundation is America's small businesses - the places where most new jobs begin.  These companies represent the essence of the American spirit - the promise that anyone can succeed in this country if you have a good idea and the determination to see it through.  And every once in awhile, these ideas don't just lead to a new business and new jobs, but a new American product that forever changes the world.  After all, Hewlett Packard began in a garage.  Google began as a simple research project.  Government can't create these businesses, but it can give entrepreneurs the support they need to open their doors, expand, or hire more workers.  And that's what we've always done in this country.  The folks at Southwest Windpower in Flagstaff, Arizona started their company in a small home.  Since getting a loan from the Small Business Administration, they've sold 160,000 wind turbines to about 90 different countries, and are hiring even more workers today.  When Sam Ko walked into one of the SBA's small business development centers in Illinois, he didn't have any business experience at all - just a patent for a new metal manufacturing technology.  He was given a loan and a business plan, and today his company is still growing, with offices all over the Midwest.  Last year, the steps we took supported over 47,000 loans to small businesses and delivered billions in tax relief to small business owners, which helped companies keep their doors open, make payroll, and hire workers.  But we can and must do more.  That's why I've proposed a series of steps this week to support small business owners and the jobs they create - to provide more access to credit, more incentives to hire, and more opportunities to grow and sell products all over the world.  Because financing remains difficult for good, credit-worthy small businesses across the country, I've proposed that we take $30 billion from the TARP fund originally used for Wall Street and create a new Small Business Lending Fund that will provide capital for community banks on Main Street.  These are the small, local banks that will be able to give our small business owners more of the credit they need to stay afloat.  We should also continue to waive fees, increase guarantees, and expand the size of SBA-backed loans for small businesses.  And yesterday, I proposed making it easier for small business owners to refinance their mortgages during these tough times. To give these companies greater incentives to grow and create jobs, I've proposed a new tax credit for more than one million small businesses that hire new workers or raise wages, as well as the elimination of all capital gains taxes on small business investment.  Finally, we should provide targeted support to the most innovative small businesses - the ones with the greatest potential to export new goods and products all over the world.  A lot of these companies - like the wind turbine manufacturer I mentioned - are the foundation on which we can rebuild our economy to compete in the 21st century.  They just need a little help securing the financing they need to get off the ground.  We have every incentive to help them do that.  Next week, Congress will start debating many of these proposals.  And if anyone has additional ideas to support small businesses and create jobs, I'm happy to consider them.  My door is always open.  But I urge members of both parties:  do not oppose good ideas just because it's good politics to do so.  The proposals I've outlined are not Democratic or Republican; liberal or conservative.  They are pro-business, they are pro-growth, and they are pro-job.  Leaders in both parties have supported similar ideas in the past.  So let's come together and pass these measures without delay.  Let's put more Americans back to work, and let's give our small business owners the support to do what they've always done:  the freedom to pursue their dreams and build our country's future.  Thanks for listening.
. From the halls of Congress to the homes of ordinary Americans, this debate has helped us to forge consensus and find common ground. That's a good thing. That's what America is all about. Now, as the debate draws to a close, we can point to a broad and growing coalition of doctors and nurses, workers and businesses, hospitals and even drug companies - folks who represent different parties and perspectives, including leading Democrats and many leading Republicans - who recognize the urgency of action. Just this week, the Senate Finance Committee approved a reform proposal that has both Democratic and Republican support. For the first time ever, all five committees in Congress responsible for health reform have passed a version of legislation. As I speak to you today, we are closer to reforming the health care system than we have ever been in history. But this is not the time to pat ourselves on the back. This is not the time to grow complacent. There are still significant details and disagreements to be worked out in the coming weeks. And there are still those who would try to kill reform at any cost. The history is clear: for decades rising health care costs have unleashed havoc on families, businesses, and the economy. And for decades, whenever we have tried to reform the system, the insurance companies have done everything in their considerable power to stop us.  We know that this inaction has carried a terrible toll. In the past decade, premiums have doubled. Over the past few years, total out of pocket costs for people with insurance rose by a third. And we know that if we do not reform the system, this will only be a preview of coming attractions. A new report for the Business Roundtable - a non-partisan group that represents the CEOs of major companies - found that without significant reform, health care costs for these employers and their employees will well more than double again over the next decade. The cost per person for health insurance will rise by almost $18,000. That's a huge amount of money. That's going to mean lower salaries and higher unemployment, lower profits and higher rolls of uninsured. It is no exaggeration to say, that unless we act, these costs will devastate the US economy. This is the unsustainable path we're on, and it's the path the insurers want to keep us on. In fact, the insurance industry is rolling out the big guns and breaking open their massive war chest - to marshal their forces for one last fight to save the status quo. They're filling the airwaves with deceptive and dishonest ads. They're flooding Capitol Hill with lobbyists and campaign contributions.  And they're funding studies designed to mislead the American people. Of course, like clockwork, we've seen folks on cable television who know better, waving these industry-funded studies in the air. We've seen industry insiders - and their apologists - citing these studies as proof of claims that just aren't true. They'll claim that premiums will go up under reform; but they know that the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office found that reforms will lower premiums in a new insurance exchange while offering consumer protections that will limit out-of-pocket costs and prevent discrimination based on pre-existing conditions. They'll claim that you'll have to pay more out of pocket; but they know that this is based on a study that willfully ignores whole sections of the bill, including tax credits and cost savings that will greatly benefit middle class families. Even the authors of one of these studies have now admitted publicly that the insurance companies actually asked them to do an incomplete job. It's smoke and mirrors. It's bogus. And it's all too familiar. Every time we get close to passing reform, the insurance companies produce these phony studies as a prescription and say, "Take one of these, and call us in a decade." Well, not this time. The fact is, the insurance industry is making this last-ditch effort to stop reform even as costs continue to rise and our health care dollars continue to be poured into their profits, bonuses, and administrative costs that do nothing to make us healthy - that often actually go toward figuring out how to avoid covering people. And they're earning these profits and bonuses while enjoying a privileged exception from our anti-trust laws, a matter that Congress is rightfully reviewing. Now, I welcome a good debate. I welcome the chance to defend our proposals and to test our ideas in the fires of this democracy. But what I will not abide are those who would bend the truth - or break it - to score political points and stop our progress as a country.  And what we all must oppose are the same old cynical Washington games that have been played for decades even as our problems have grown and our challenges have mounted. Last November, the American people went to the polls in historic numbers and demanded change. They wanted a change in our policies; but they also sought a change in our politics: a politics that too often has fallen prey to the lobbyists and the special interests; that has fostered division and sustained the status quo. Passing health insurance reform is a great test of this proposition. Yes, it will make a profound and positive difference in the lives of the American people. But it also now represents something more: whether or not we as a nation are capable of tackling our toughest challenges, if we can serve the national interest despite the unrelenting efforts of the special interests; if we can still do big things in America. I believe we can.  I believe we will. And I urge every member of Congress to stand against the power plays and political ploys - and to stand up on behalf the American people who sent us to Washington to do their business. Thank you.
.  They're running the mom and pop stores and neighborhood restaurants we know and love.  They're building tiny startups with big ideas that could revolutionize an industry, maybe even transform our economy.  They are the more than half of all Americans who work at a small business, or own a small business.  And they embody the spirit of possibility, the relentless work ethic, and the hope for something better that is at the heart of the American Dream. They also represent a segment of our economy that has been hard hit by this recession.  Over the past couple of years, small businesses have lost hundreds of thousands of jobs.  Many have struggled to get the loans they need to finance their inventories and make payroll.  Many entrepreneurs can't get financing to start a small business in the first place.  And many more are discouraged from even trying because of the crushing costs of health care - costs that have forced too many small businesses to cut benefits, shed jobs, or shut their doors for good.  Small businesses have always been the engine of our economy - creating 65 percent of all new jobs over the past decade and a half - and they must be at the forefront of our recovery.  That's why the Recovery Act was designed to help small businesses expand and create jobs.  It's provided $5 billion worth of tax relief, as well as temporarily reducing or eliminating fees on SBA loans and guaranteeing some of these loans up to 90 percent, which has supported nearly $13 billion in new lending to more than 33,000 businesses. In addition, our health reform plan will allow small businesses to buy insurance for their employees through an insurance exchange, which may offer better coverage at lower costs - and we'll provide tax credits for those that choose to do so.  And this past week, I called on Congress to increase the maximum size of various SBA loans, so that more small business owners can set up shop and grow their operations.  I also announced that we'll be taking additional steps through our Financial Stability plan to make more credit available to the small local and community banks that so many small businesses depend on - the banks who know their borrowers, who gave them their first loan and watched them grow.  The goal here is to get credit where it's needed most - to businesses that support families, sustain communities, and create the jobs that power our economy.  That's why we enacted the Financial Stability Plan in the first place, back when many of our largest banks were on the verge of collapse; our credit markets were frozen; and it was nearly impossible for ordinary people to get loans to buy a car or home or pay for college.  The idea was to jumpstart lending and keep our economy from spiraling into a depression.  Fortunately, it worked.  Thanks to the American taxpayers, we've now achieved the stability we need to get our economy moving forward again.  But while credit may be more available for large businesses, too many small business owners are still struggling to get the credit they need.  These are the very taxpayers who stood by America's banks in a crisis - and now it's time for our banks to stand by creditworthy small businesses, and make the loans they need to open their doors, grow their operations, and create new jobs.  It's time for those banks to fulfill their responsibility to help ensure a wider recovery, a more secure system, and more broadly shared prosperity.  And we're going to take every appropriate step to encourage them to meet those responsibilities.  Because if it's one thing we've learned, it's that here in America, we rise and fall together.  Our economy as a whole can't move ahead if small businesses and the middle class continue to fall behind. This country was built by dreamers.  They're the workers who took a chance on their desire to be their own boss.  The part-time inventors who became the fulltime entrepreneurs.  The men and women who have helped build the American middle class, keeping alive that most American of ideals - that all things are possible for all people, and we're limited only by the size of our dreams and our willingness to work for them.  We need to do everything we can to ensure that they can keep taking those risks, acting on those dreams, and building the enterprises that fuel our economy and make us who we are.  Thanks.
've spoken with you about the challenges we face as a nation and the path we must take to meet them. And the truth is, over the past ten months, I've often had to report distressing news during what has been a difficult time for our country. But today, I am pleased to offer some better news that - while not cause for celebration - is certainly reason to believe that we are moving in the right direction. On Thursday, we received a report on our Gross Domestic Product, or GDP. This is an important measure of our economy as a whole, one that tells us how much we are producing and how much businesses and families are earning. We learned that the economy grew for the first time in more than a year and faster than at any point in the previous two years. So while we have a long way to go before we return to prosperity, and there will undoubtedly be ups and downs along the road, it's also true that we've come a long way. It is easy to forget that it was only several months ago that the economy was shrinking rapidly and many economists feared another Great Depression. Now, economic growth is no substitute for job growth. And we will likely see further job losses in the coming days, a fact that is both troubling for our economy and heartbreaking for the men and women who suddenly find themselves out of work. But we will not create the jobs we need unless the economy is growing; that's why this GDP report is a good sign. And we can see clearly now that the steps my administration is taking are making a difference, blunting the worst of this recession and helping to bring about its conclusion. We've acted aggressively to jumpstart credit for families and businesses, including small businesses, which have seen an increase in lending of 73 percent. We've taken steps to stem the tide of foreclosures, modifying mortgages to help hundreds of thousands of responsible homeowners keep their homes and help millions more sustain the value in their homes. And the Recovery Act is spurring demand through a tax cut for 95 percent of working families, and through assistance for seniors and those who have lost jobs - which not only helps folks hardest hit by the downturn, but also encourages the consumer spending that will help turn the economy around. Finally, the Recovery Act is saving and creating jobs all across the country. Just this week, we reached an important milestone. Based on reports coming in from across America - as shovels break ground, as needed public servants are rehired, and as factories whir to life - it is clear that the Recovery Act has now created and saved more than one million jobs. That's more than a million people who might otherwise be out of work today - folks who can wake up each day knowing that they'll be able to provide for themselves and their families. We've saved jobs by closing state budget shortfalls to prevent the layoffs of hundreds of thousands of police officers, firefighters, and teachers who are today on the beat, on call, and in the classroom because of the Recovery Act. And we've also created hundreds of thousands of jobs through the largest investment in our roads since the building of the interstate highways, and through the largest investments in education, medical research, and clean energy in history. These investments aren't just helping us recover in the short term, they're helping to lay a new foundation for lasting prosperity in the long term - and they're giving hardworking, middle-class Americans the chance to succeed and raise a family.  Because of the investments we've made and the steps we've taken, it's easier for middle-class families to send their kids to college and get the training and skills they need to compete in a global economy.  We're making it easier for these families to save for retirement.   And in areas like clean energy, we're creating the jobs of the future - jobs that pay well and can't be outsourced. In fact, just this week, I traveled to Arcadia, Florida to announce the largest set of clean energy projects through the Recovery Act so far: one hundred grants for businesses, utilities, manufacturers, cities and other partners across the country to put thousands of people to work modernizing our electric grid - the system that provides power to our homes and businesses - so that it wastes less energy, helps integrate renewables like wind and solar, and saves consumers money. And that's just one example. So, we have made progress. At the same time, I want to emphasize that there's still plenty of progress to be made. For we know that positive news for the economy as a whole means little if you've lost your job and can't find another, if you can't afford health care or the mortgage, if you do not see in your own life the improvement we are seeing in these economic statistics. And positive news today does not mean there won't be difficult days ahead. As I've said many times, it took years to dig our way into the crisis we've faced. It will take more than a few months to dig our way out. But make no mistake: that's exactly what we will do. For the economy we seek is one where folks who need a job can find one and incomes are rising again. The economy we seek is one where small businesses can flourish and entrepreneurs can get the capital they need to plant new seeds of growth. The economy we seek is one that's no longer based on maxed out credits cards, wild speculation, and the old cycles of boom or bust - but rather one that's built on a solid foundation, supporting growth that is strong, sustained, and broadly shared by middle class families across America.  That is what we are working toward every single day. And we will not stop until we get there. Thank you. And Happy Halloween.
'd like to speak with you for a few minutes today about the tragedy that took place at Ft. Hood. This past Thursday, on a clear Texas afternoon, an Army psychiatrist walked into the Soldier Readiness Processing Center, and began shooting his fellow soldiers. It is an act of violence that would have been heartbreaking had it occurred anyplace in America. It is a crime that would have horrified us had its victims been Americans of any background. But it's all the more heartbreaking and all the more despicable because of the place where it occurred and the patriots who were its victims. The SRP is where our men and women in uniform go before getting deployed. It's where they get their teeth checked and their medical records updated and make sure everything is in order before getting shipped out. It was in this place, on a base where our soldiers ought to feel most safe, where those brave Americans who are preparing to risk their lives in defense of our nation, lost their lives in a crime against our nation. Soldiers stationed in Iraq, Afghanistan, and around the world called and emailed loved ones at Ft. Hood, all expressing the same stunned reaction: I'm supposed to be the one in harm's way, not you. Thursday's shooting was one of the most devastating ever committed on an American military base. And yet, even as we saw the worst of human nature on full display, we also saw the best of America. We saw soldiers and civilians alike rushing to aid fallen comrades; tearing off bullet-riddled clothes to treat the injured; using blouses as tourniquets; taking down the shooter even as they bore wounds themselves. We saw soldiers bringing to bear on our own soil the skills they had been trained to use abroad; skills that been honed through years of determined effort for one purpose and one purpose only: to protect and defend the United States of America. We saw the valor, selflessness, and unity of purpose that make our servicemen and women the finest fighting force on Earth; that make the United States military the best the world has ever known; and that make all of us proud to be Americans. On Friday, I met with FBI Director Mueller, Defense Secretary Gates, and representatives of the relevant agencies to discuss their ongoing investigation into what led to this terrible crime. And I'll continue to be in close contact with them as new information comes in. We cannot fully know what leads a man to do such a thing. But what we do know is that our thoughts are with every single one of the men and women who were injured at Ft. Hood. Our thoughts are with all the families who've lost a loved one in this national tragedy. And our thoughts are with all the Americans who wear - or who've worn - the proud uniform of the United States of America; our soldiers, sailors, airmen, Marines, and coast guardsmen, and the military families who love and support them. In tribute to those who fell at Ft. Hood, I've ordered flags flying over the White House, and other federal buildings to be lowered to half-staff from now until Veterans Day next Wednesday. Veterans Day is our chance to honor those Americans who've served on battlefields from Lexington to Antietam, Normandy to Manila, Inchon to Khe Sanh, Ramadi to Kandahar. They are Americans of every race, faith, and station. They are Christians and Muslims, Jews and Hindus and nonbelievers. They are descendents of immigrants and immigrants themselves. They reflect the diversity that makes this America. But what they share is a patriotism like no other. What they share is a commitment to country that has been tested and proved worthy. What they share is the same unflinching courage, unblinking compassion, and uncommon camaraderie that the soldiers and civilians of Ft. Hood showed America and showed the world. These are the men and women we honor today. These are the men and women we'll honor on Veterans Day. And these are the men and women we shall honor every day, in times of war and times of peace, so long as our nation endures.
. Every fall, we set aside a special day to pay tribute to our veterans. But this year, Veteran's Day took on even greater poignancy and meaning because of the tragic events at Fort Hood. On Tuesday, I traveled there to join with the Fort Hood community, the Army, and the friends and families of the victims to honor thirteen of our fellow Americans who died - and the dozens more who were wounded - not on some distant shore, but on a military base at home. Every man and woman who signs up for military service does so with full knowledge of the dangers that could come - that is part of what makes the service of our troops and veterans so extraordinary. But it's unthinkable that so many would die in a hail of gunfire on a US Army base in the heart of Texas, and that a fellow service-member could have pulled trigger. There is an ongoing investigation into this terrible tragedy. That investigation will look at the motives of the alleged gunman, including his views and contacts.  As I said in Fort Hood, I am confident that justice will be done, and I will insist that the full story be told. That is paramount, and I won't compromise that investigation today by discussing the details of this case. But given the potential warning signs that may have been known prior these shootings, we must uncover what steps - if any - could have been taken to avert this tragedy. On the Thursday evening that this tragedy took place, I met in the Oval Office with Secretary of Defense Gates, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff - Admiral Mullen, and FBI Director Mueller to review the immediate steps that were necessary to support the families and secure Fort Hood. The next morning, I met with the leadership of our military and the intelligence community, and ordered them to undertake a full review of the sequence of events that led up to the shootings. The purpose of this review is clear: We must compile every piece of information that was known about the gunman, and we must learn what was done with that information. Once we have those facts, we must act upon them. If there was a failure to take appropriate action before the shootings, there must be accountability. Beyond that - and most importantly - we must quickly and thoroughly evaluate and address any flaws in the system, so that we can prevent a similar breach from happening again. Our government must be able to act swiftly and surely when it has threatening information. And our troops must have the security that they deserve. I know there will also be inquiries by Congress, and there should.  But all of us should resist the temptation to turn this tragic event into the political theater that sometimes dominates the discussion here in Washington. The stakes are far too high. Of all the responsibilities of the presidency, the one that I weigh most heavily is my duty as Commander-in-Chief to our splendid service-men and women. Their character and bravery were on full display in that processing center at Fort Hood, when so many scrambled under fire to help their wounded comrades. And their great dignity and decency has been on display in the days since, as the Fort Hood community has rallied together. We owe our troops prayerful, considered decisions about when and where we commit them to battle to protect our security and freedom, and we must fully support them when they are deployed. We also owe them the absolute assurance that they'll be safe here at home as they prepare for whatever mission may come. As Commander-in-Chief, I won't settle for anything less. This nation will never forget the service of those we lost at Fort Hood, just as we will always honor the service of all who wear the uniform of the United States of America. Their legacy will be an America that is safer and stronger - an America that reflects the extraordinary character of the men and women who serve it. Thank you.
.  I'm recording this message from Seoul, South Korea, as I finish up my first presidential trip to Asia.  As we emerge from the worst recession in generations, there is nothing more important than to do everything we can to get our economy moving again and put Americans back to work, and I will go anywhere to pursue that goal.  That's one of the main reasons I took this trip.  Asia is a region where we now buy more goods and do more trade with than any other place in the world - commerce that supports millions of jobs back home.  It's also a place where the risk of a nuclear arms race threatens our security, and where extremists plan attacks on America's soil.  And since this region includes some of the fastest-growing nations, there can be no solution to the challenge of climate change without the cooperation of the Asia Pacific. With this in mind, I traveled to Asia to open a new era of American engagement.  We made progress with China and Russia in sending a unified message to Iran and North Korea that they must live up to their international obligations and either forsake nuclear weapons or face the consequences.  As the two largest consumers and producers of energy, we developed a host of new clean energy initiatives with China, and our two nations agreed to work toward a successful outcome at the upcoming climate summit in Copenhagen - an outcome that leads to immediate action to reduce carbon pollution.  And I spoke to young men and women at a town hall in Shanghai and across the internet about certain values that we in America believe are universal:  the freedom of worship and speech; the right to access information and choose one's own leaders.  But above all, I spoke with leaders in every nation I visited about what we can do to sustain this economic recovery and bring back jobs and prosperity for our people - a task I will continue to focus on relentlessly in the weeks and months ahead.  This recession has taught us that we can't return to a situation where America's economic growth is fueled by consumers who take on more and more debt.  In order to keep growing, we need to spend less, save more, and get our federal deficit under control.  We also need to place a greater emphasis on exports that we can build, produce, and sell to other nations - exports that can help create new jobs at home and raise living standards throughout the world.  For example, if we can increase our exports to Asia Pacific nations by just 5%, we can increase the number of American jobs supported by these exports by hundreds of thousands.  This is already happening with businesses like American Superconductor Corporation, an energy technology startup based in Massachusetts that's been providing wind power and smart grid systems to countries like China, Korea, and India.  By doing so, it's added more than 100 jobs over the last few years.  Increasing our exports is one way to create new jobs and new prosperity.  But as we emerge from a recession that has left millions without work, we have an obligation to consider every additional, responsible step we can take to encourage and accelerate job creation in this country. That's why I've announced that in the next few weeks, we'll be holding a forum at the White House on jobs and economic growth. I want to hear from CEOs and small business owners, economists and financial experts, as well as representatives from labor unions and nonprofit groups, about what they think we can do to spur hiring and get this economy moving again. It is important that we do not make any ill-considered decisions - even with the best of intentions - particularly at a time when our resources are so limited.  But it is just as important that we are open to any demonstrably good idea to supplement the steps we've already taken to put America back to work.  That's what I hope to achieve in this forum.   Still, there is no forum or policy that can bring all the jobs we've lost overnight.  I wish there were, because so many Americans - friends, neighbors, family members - are desperately looking for work.  But even though it will take time, I can promise you this:  we are moving in the right direction; that the steps we are taking are helping; and I will not let up until businesses start hiring again, unemployed Americans start working again, and we rebuild this economy stronger and more prosperous than it was before.  That has been the focus of our efforts these past ten months - and it will continue to be our focus in the months and years to come.  Thanks.
's blessings. This week, we carry on this distinctly American tradition.  All across our country, folks are coming together to spend time with family, to catch up with old friends, to cook and enjoy a big dinner - and maybe to watch a little football in between. As always, we give thanks for the kindness of loved ones, for the joys of the previous year, and for the pride we feel in our communities and country. We keep in our thoughts and prayers the many families marking this Thanksgiving with an empty seat - saved for a son or daughter, or husband or wife, stationed in harm's way. And we say a special thanks for the sacrifices those men and women in uniform are making for our safety and freedom, and for all those Americans who enrich the lives of our communities through acts of kindness, generosity and service. But as much as we all have to be thankful for, we also know that this year millions of Americans are facing very difficult economic times. Many have lost jobs in this recession - the worst in generations. Many more are struggling to afford health care premiums and house payments, let alone to save for an education or retirement. Too many are wondering if the dream of a middle class life - that American Dream - is slipping away.  It's the worry I hear from folks across the country; good, hard-working people doing the best they can for their families - but fearing that their best just isn't good enough. These are not strangers.  They are our family, our friends, and our neighbors. Their struggles must be our concern. That's why we passed the Recovery Act that cut taxes for 95 percent of working people and for small businesses - and that extended unemployment benefits and health coverage for millions of Americans who lost their jobs in this turmoil.  That's why we are reforming the health care system so that middle-class families have affordable insurance that cannot be denied because of a pre-existing condition or taken away because you happen to get sick. We've worked to stem the tide of foreclosures and to stop the decline in home values. We're making it easier to save for retirement and more affordable to send a son or daughter to college. The investments we have made and tough steps we have taken have helped break the back of the recession, and now our economy is finally growing again.  But as I said when I took office, job recovery from this crisis would not come easily or quickly. Though the job losses we were experiencing earlier this year have slowed dramatically, we're still not creating enough new jobs each month to make up for the ones we're losing.  And no matter what the economists say, for families and communities across the country, this recession will not end until we completely turn that tide. So we've made progress. But we cannot rest - and my administration will not rest - until we have revived this economy and rebuilt it stronger than before; until we are creating jobs and opportunities for middle class families; until we have moved beyond the cycles of boom and bust - of reckless risk and speculation - that led us to so much crisis and pain these past few years. Next week, I'll be meeting with owners of large and small businesses, labor leaders, and non-for-profits from across the country, to talk about the additional steps we can take to help spur job creation. I will work with the Congress to enact them quickly. And it is my fervent hope - and my heartfelt expectation - that next Thanksgiving we will be able to celebrate the fact that many of those who have lost their jobs are back at work, and that as a nation we will have come through these difficult storms stronger and wiser and grateful to have reached a brighter day. Thank you, God bless you, and from my family to yours, Happy Thanksgiving.